Valerie Stoehr: Alrighty then.
mctavish: Did you have a lovely day yesterday.
Valerie Stoehr: Yes, it was, you know, we didn't really, it wasn't that much like Thanksgiving, Thanksgiving, like we kind of started out without a lot of plans.
Valerie Stoehr: But then I kind of wanted to
Valerie Stoehr: Just have some food.
mctavish: I know that's the thing. It's a harvest festival
Is yeah
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: So just kind of kicked it into gear and oh my god I love cranberries. I mean,
mctavish: I know right.
Valerie Stoehr: Like, I think I fell in love with them last fall and like, oh my god, I must make cranberries, all the time. I must, you know, elevate the cranberry and then I never acted on it. Right.
Valerie Stoehr: There's a bag of frozen cranberries, there was a bag in the freezer that had just been looking at me all year long that I hadn't done anything with. So, you know, can do me. So we had an orange. You know, so orange zest orange juice Carmen close apples cranberries like oh my
God
Valerie Stoehr: So God
Valerie Stoehr: This pot of pinto beans.
mctavish: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Roasted our
Valerie Stoehr: My little Frozen Lemon juice cubes, since we didn't have two bags of lemons and
Valerie Stoehr: We didn't make cornbread. I might do that today. But yeah, so that'll fried chicken, you know, the tofu that's fried chicken with over nutritional yeast, like all over it, some butter, salt.
Valerie Stoehr: That's good. Oh, and then for dessert. I'm very proud of my dessert. So
Valerie Stoehr: It's how to make here like a fake here really quickly without Darien without like sugar. Sugar so equal parts of almond flour and dates.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, in the VitaMix. So I did about a half a cup of
Valerie Stoehr: Almond flour about a very generous half a cup of date cell Preston, you know, to a half cup thing about three times as much water and then Vitamix that fucker. And then, um, and then I added
Valerie Stoehr: A tablespoon or two or, you know, I added chia seeds and put it in the fridge.
Valerie Stoehr: XO became
Valerie Stoehr: This lovely putting that back with saffron and Carmen in it.
Valerie Stoehr: Nice. And so it just became this luscious sweet. It was like having care. You know, it's like having this lovely rice pudding thing and
mctavish: Nice.
Valerie Stoehr: Like we haven't really been having desserts. We haven't the cake, the cake train slowed down.
Valerie Stoehr: Since Carol made that olive oil cake and because it's just so overwhelming to have, like, you know, a full
mctavish: Yeah.
You know,
Valerie Stoehr: So it's really nice.
Valerie Stoehr: Excellent. How about you guys.
mctavish: Oh, she made a really good cornbread.
mctavish: Stuffing
mctavish: Young some chicken with that just a little bit of chicken with that and then
mctavish: And then I cranberries thing. You know I love coffee, so I wish you could grow cranberries is you're like, hi bush cranberries have a similar kind of idea, but not quite. And then at the end, then we had
mctavish: Pumpkin Pie. We had a pumpkin from the food farm know for my day.
mctavish: So I've been saving it to make it the thing about it like I usually always make squashed by and in fact was in Kansas actually squash.
mctavish: You know, how can play Kansas actually switch and it really is true. It's a little bit more stringy you know you know it's not quite as rigid great a squash so
mctavish: That was medium.
mctavish: Okay but she'll made a little caramel sauce on the top. So that was
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, that works.
mctavish: That improved it
mctavish: And then we have some brussels sprouts.
Valerie Stoehr: Oh, yeah.
mctavish: For the food term still so it's like I was just low key we watch too stupid.
mctavish: Coming out lesbian holiday movies.
mctavish: And and and then play Scrabble.
Valerie Stoehr: So, yeah.
mctavish: It's kind of a silly.
Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: It was bookended before the big cooking. We had zoom with my
Valerie Stoehr: Sister's family is in Ohio, because they drove to see John's sister why
Valerie Stoehr: So, whatever. And then, um,
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, the, the family in Kenyan that we usually have Thanksgiving with
mctavish: Wizard with
Valerie Stoehr: I think there might be a similar dynamic going on because
Valerie Stoehr: You know there's cousins who are just hold up in
Valerie Stoehr: Wisconsin, you know, and then there's we have a cousin really nice guy, Michael, and he he doesn't have a lot of money pays as old as I am. He's working like on construction sites that column Grampa because like, you know, no, it's all these young man.
Valerie Stoehr: So like he was working in South Dakota, with some of that.
Valerie Stoehr: Stuff you know he's a lefty, so he's
mctavish: Yeah.
You know,
Valerie Stoehr: So he doesn't really fit in with the crowd. But, you know, like, it's what he's doing. He had this
Valerie Stoehr: Other job and there was a divorce and
mctavish: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, he
Valerie Stoehr: knows what he's doing, you know, and so he's traveling around to these different sites. Try not to get carpet and where was he, he is with my aunt and uncle.
Yeah.
mctavish: So credit. Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: He was even talking about, you know, like we asked him about
Valerie Stoehr: What he's trying to do. And he talked about trying to stay safe and you know he sounded like super reasonable, but then like, why are you there. I don't
mctavish: Understand, right.
mctavish: I know because I'm not afraid of getting it from them, you know, it's like the people that are the pollinators is like it's kinda like they missed the other part of that that that phrase, you know,
mctavish: But they could get it from you.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah. Oh, and then we zoomed with Carol's cousins in Detroit.
Valerie Stoehr: And it was nice. And then we watched like an episode and a half from the British Bake Off.
Valerie Stoehr: As Carol's new to that.
mctavish: Yeah, funny.
Valerie Stoehr: I've already gone through, like I did one binge of like the last season, I think. But I think we're looking at the original season right now.
Valerie Stoehr: And it's fun.
mctavish: Interesting. Yeah, it's just I know it's like it's just hard to even watch mysteries, because it's hard to see death in all right now. It just feels like there's so much stress is like
mctavish: See violence or something.
Yeah.
mctavish: Yeah.
mctavish: But that that will be transit. That was really good. It was kind of a combination. It was between Casablanca and and like, did you see a big vendors
mctavish: They call it, it's not. It's called sky over Berlin or something and in in German, but it's a it's called here. It's called a Wings of Desire, or something like that. Yeah, that's a great phone that's, that's one of my favorite films of all time, actually.
mctavish: So, but
mctavish: Anyway,
mctavish: WOW, THAT IT'S LIKE THAT. THAT IT WAS SO IT WAS THAT WAS A TREAT BECAUSE
mctavish: It's just nice. Once all the accidentally get a good film instead of
mctavish: Yeah, there's so much trash, you know,
mctavish: Yeah, and me.
mctavish: Hmm, so
Valerie Stoehr: How is it going, Oh, you did words like good for you.
mctavish: Yeah, and I actually now i have i just put up
mctavish: Something with a brand new navigation. So I just skipped the icons. It just felt like I showed it to my dad is kind of like
mctavish: A user tests like with Rachel fish. You know what I mean. So, so, and I could just tell like no one knows the turn on the sound. They just don't
Valerie Stoehr: Right. And then even my sister.
mctavish: Was like, you know, it's like, because everyone thinks of visual stuff when you go out, you're on the web. You know, it's like they're not like okay and where do I turn on the sound like no one's asking that question. Remember
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: You know, unless it's a movie.
Valerie Stoehr: Unless it looks like a movie.
mctavish: Yeah, so, so I just that just forget it.
mctavish: So now I haven't just with
mctavish: Words links.
mctavish: Yeah. Are you going to it is that
Valerie Stoehr: Now I'm not
Valerie Stoehr: Let me
mctavish: Let's see. He looked like you're against kids.
Valerie Stoehr: Oh, now I'm just looking at you.
Valerie Stoehr: Knew tracked
Valerie Stoehr: Do it. Oh, did actually click record. I think I did. Right. Yeah, I did. Yeah. Okay. Um,
Valerie Stoehr: Let me, let me share
Valerie Stoehr: Share computer sound.
Valerie Stoehr: Probably good
mctavish: Yeah, no.
Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: And we'll do this one.
Valerie Stoehr: A little smaller.
Valerie Stoehr: And less a nice colors.
mctavish: And then I did like you said, I kind of made it simpler got rid of the it's not that much simpler, but I have a black. I'm going to just keeps the background of the words.
mctavish: Yeah study up black, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: Just reloaded it
Valerie Stoehr: Oh, yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: And then it comes up right away, like you said,
mctavish: You know, I kind of a great thing. And the other ones. The next time I uploaded, they'll come up quicker.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: Because it's just like when you go back. It's just too long.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, I know. It's like, and I did, I did love
mctavish: The open endurance.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, but yeah, then
Valerie Stoehr: It's like it's trying to do two different things.
mctavish: Right, right. So if you just kind of go through and then I'm not sure about the order of the box, really, my dad thought that like Sheila's words are a little bit more understandable, but when he went to field notes right away. He was so frustrated because very well.
mctavish: Yeah, and he tried to
Valerie Stoehr: You know, yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Oh, yeah.
mctavish: So he said, like it can seem like what it is. If you've already gotten a
mctavish: You know, I mean,
Valerie Stoehr: Like yeah, do a starter kind of
mctavish: Yeah, so you sort of disintegrated into this
mctavish: Yes.
mctavish: In other words, you have mixed feelings about that but
Yes, obviously.
mctavish: Like these, this first two now are Sheila's words.
mctavish: You know, you're going to going right into her space more which may be as good as fine.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: You know, I mean,
mctavish: Yeah. And then I kind of rub off on you slowly or something but
mctavish: I'm just not quite sure about that.
mctavish: About the order you know
mctavish: Yeah, and a PR words obviously are
mctavish: You know she's a poet. So it's like their meaning. You know what I mean that it has more
mctavish: Yeah, so maybe that's the way to go.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah I don't know either. That makes sense to me.
Valerie Stoehr: I mean, I don't want the bell museum to be like
Valerie Stoehr: You know, I kind of like, I mean, there is something beautiful about starting with the field notes.
Valerie Stoehr: But I agree with you to like, it's like, what the fuck, I can't even read this, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, um,
Valerie Stoehr: I think, yeah, leave it like this and just see how that goes. I mean, I do this seems like this is a lot better just
Valerie Stoehr: Like
mctavish: The turnout on and then it turns out, and then it says just turn off sound. You know, it's like okay
mctavish: I give up.
mctavish: Because I what I kind of thought, too, is that, you know, it's really a little bit. I just think for accessibility reasons to it's always like you have an A, you have an anchor tag.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: And what you want this, the screen reader to read is in the anchor tag like no extra you know it's just that's the simplest where there's text.
mctavish: The screen reader to read
mctavish: The anchor tag. Like why struggle with that. You know, so that's what i. And so even with those links that are pointing up then down below.
mctavish: Yeah, like it's better, actually, to say that we're top
mctavish: Yeah, so I might do that everywhere.
mctavish: Maybe not as much
Valerie Stoehr: They are, yeah.
You know,
mctavish: But so here I think it's just a little bit clearer and it doesn't matter anyway. That's her text.
mctavish: Yeah, maybe in some of the really busy or crazy tunes places. I'll put the word top, you know, because who cares. That's the word top is in those other ones. This one, like, it's like, I don't want that were necessary to interrupt her words.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, I do feel like top versus go to top. I'm not sure top will even makes sense to people.
Valerie Stoehr: Right being like, right, it'll look like what
mctavish: Yeah, true. So up or something or
Valerie Stoehr: What or leave it.
mctavish: Just leave it like that. Yeah, yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: I mean, cuz people because it's so clear about scribbling it's so clear about the up, down buttons.
mctavish: Yeah and now it's not that thing about the menu being up to the upper left, you've never noticed that, you know,
mctavish: Hey, yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Right, it's just less critical that like from any point in a page, you would want to go to the top. Like, that's a different pattern. Like, why try to teach it to them. It's not worth it.
mctavish: Right. Right. Yeah, that's what I kept feeling like, what's the point like so you put it on the homepage, how you navigate and then no one will read that either, because what I noticed it's really true. No one scrolls.
mctavish: Yeah, you know, like, you know, often you get here, you're not going to scroll anymore.
mctavish: Yeah, so
mctavish: Yeah, so if you have, and I don't know. Is that kind of a dorky text.
mctavish: Basically thanks sex.
Valerie Stoehr: No, I don't think so. I don't think so.
mctavish: And if it's as simple as that. That's okay. Right. And then maybe underneath it all say, you know, link to portfolio site or something like that, you know, at the very bottom.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: They want to know about me.
Valerie Stoehr: I think this is good, you know, the project was started during the summer of 2020 i mean that's in normal times that sentences and a strong during 2020 that's a strong sentence right
mctavish: Mm hmm.
Valerie Stoehr: You know this project was started in
mctavish: 1988 right
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, exactly. In, in, in, you know,
mctavish: Right, right, right.
Valerie Stoehr: Number one was crystal not you know like it.
mctavish: Right, right.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: I think it says exactly
Valerie Stoehr: I think it's good. I don't think it's dorky, I just think, because it's not dorky because it's just simple and it's clear right it's
Valerie Stoehr: Like, it's a good solid way to start it like that just kind of has so much feeling behind it. But it's clear.
Okay, good.
mctavish: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: This project was started during
Valerie Stoehr: You know, and then yeah up evil grief resistance reflection isolation.
Valerie Stoehr: I think it works.
Okay, good.
mctavish: And then is this simple enough. Like, it's hard to get rid of all movement in a way, but because sometimes people won't go even further than here.
Valerie Stoehr: Right. Yep. This works because you can read it. It's clear that, like, this is the focus. This one is less about the stuff behind. I think it's fine.
mctavish: Okay, good.
Valerie Stoehr: Cuz I I totally can read it.
Valerie Stoehr: I mean, I haven't checked on mobile, but you're really smart about that. It seems like it'd be the same thing i'd be clear.
mctavish: Yeah, I feel like increasingly I feel like why
Fight.
mctavish: The web, you know,
mctavish: Like way so photosynthesis is a new one. And if you saw that, but
mctavish: And then I think I'm going to do.
mctavish: I think I'll probably do possibly one with film behind. I kind of do you feel like it's kind of a full collection. Now, in terms of, you know, I mean, I'll keep adding to it. Your time 60 but but i mean to hand it off.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: Yeah, so it kinda
Valerie Stoehr: That's cool.
Valerie Stoehr: That's beautiful.
mctavish: And then I need to finish out the sound you know make me kind of dis there's distinct islands of sound.
Yeah.
mctavish: So I have like
mctavish: A couple of the partners that are all right. Yeah. So, and I had some sort of asking partners that I know first and then give it to the bell.
mctavish: Their goal of the release for the belt was more in January, so
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: So this is currently right
Valerie Stoehr: Date.
Valerie Stoehr: Like for the for the field notes in a way I expect the date to be not current date.
Yeah.
mctavish: Maybe almost started at 1938
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, why not.
Valerie Stoehr: Did they all have that current date on right
Right.
Valerie Stoehr: Planets. Yeah, I mean,
Valerie Stoehr: Like if the date stamp is important to each one. Then maybe
Valerie Stoehr: Maybe this one could be. Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: Maybe randomize it at some point in the past.
Valerie Stoehr: Like here, it says 1914 and then up here and center has
mctavish: Done for
Valerie Stoehr: Us. Good. I guess you could display it.
Valerie Stoehr: Like for which ones is that part of the piece.
Valerie Stoehr: You know you
mctavish: And then from there.
Valerie Stoehr: I mean just height. Yeah, you can hide it for night train right
mctavish: Yeah right could actually have it start point
mctavish: Be
mctavish: Like a few days before the last pigeon died.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah. Uh huh.
Valerie Stoehr: Uh huh.
mctavish: Like in August of 1914
Uh huh.
Valerie Stoehr: Uh huh.
mctavish: And this one has a character like originally, I had this character and I don't know why, but this name was so strong, to me, like the word Pullman is the character.
mctavish: But I'm sort of
mctavish: I feel like there's complexity because the Pullman porters were all black so i i don't know why that name appeared, but it just like was so strong and so it's not that I don't know that. But I didn't mean for it to be that, you know,
mctavish: It was just like the name of the birth that kind of came up. So, but I think I'm going to change them that name now to just the writer, the passenger. So it's like this.
mctavish: consistency with
mctavish: That other hero character.
mctavish: So I might even start with that's similar line here.
Valerie Stoehr: That makes sense to me.
mctavish: I think just to skip any question are
Valerie Stoehr: You. Yeah, it's got such baggage, so to speak.
Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: It's not bad. I know what you mean. It's
mctavish: Just by go there.
Valerie Stoehr: Actually
mctavish: So that was clear cleaner and clearer to you.
Valerie Stoehr: Totally, my God, it's like, I know where I am.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, we
mctavish: I don't know why. Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: They have their own flavors to them.
Valerie Stoehr: I love your colors. God damn. Look at that blue with that brown
Valerie Stoehr: I was, I kind of
Valerie Stoehr: So I was looking again at the audio and the video tags for HTML.
Valerie Stoehr: And the default audio player and
Valerie Stoehr: Firefox, like it was like, why is it brown that's so ugly. It's brown
Valerie Stoehr: And then I see that it was adjusting it based on
Valerie Stoehr: I put a background color.
mctavish: To
Valerie Stoehr: It, though, it's kind of had like
Valerie Stoehr: It seems to like kind of pick a compatible.
mctavish: Oh, weird. Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: But it made like an icky compatible choice.
Valerie Stoehr: And so
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah. Well, if it's gonna be brown, you know, blues, a good one. And then I noticed. Okay. Yeah. And then Chrome is doing something entirely different. So, you know, how do we get colors that kind of, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: But I'm just saying, yeah, brown, making brown be beautiful is a challenge.
mctavish: You know, I've tried before a lot and it's turns really yellow and some people screens. It's like, it's kinda like red. And yeah, that whole warms it just and I think partly is because we're just so much more flexible about blue yeah brown can like really yellow me Yaki quick and
mctavish: Yeah, and say, well, and red can literally
Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Wow.
Valerie Stoehr: It's beautiful, it's mesmerizing.
mctavish: Okay, good. Thank you. Thank you so much for all your help. And I just, it was hard to let go of the icons, just because it took work to get it to work. And then, but you know that's always a hint to like if there's if you're struggling with this navigation bar like this fucker like
mctavish: Mm Hmm, maybe
Valerie Stoehr: They may come back later somewhere, somehow.
Valerie Stoehr: But, but why, in a way.
mctavish: Why not, I mean,
Valerie Stoehr: In some other reimagined you know
mctavish: Yeah, exactly.
mctavish: Yeah, like
mctavish: Like there's this thing about like I'm interested in working with hypertext I'm interested in really linking these documents, a lot more and and just linking in general that whole card catalog. The index the
mctavish: Yeah. The beautiful thing about hypertext so why
mctavish: Not use tax you know i mean that's the point of paper text right
mctavish: You know we do all those weird that I mean for a while right it is pictures for the buttons or, you know, it's just insane with I remember like really early on, like web Native people would always just go, you know, they're like, oh yeah, that's a link
mctavish: But then for a few other people that were used to Microsoft like access and something had to have that I agree. Great button.
To click on something.
mctavish: And I just feel like there's something so beautiful about that you could click on text.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: Right. That's the magic spell right
And
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: It's really, it's nice. I like the pace of the movements now.
mctavish: Oh, good.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, that's beautiful.
Valerie Stoehr: Fantastic blues.
Valerie Stoehr: And the browns.
Valerie Stoehr: And the great helps. It's really nice.
mctavish: Thank you. Thank you so much for helping me
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah yeah yeah yeah
mctavish: It's rude to me, too, is because this has a little bit of all passed the on them. It's just, it's black. Actually, but whatever lies over it kind of takes the color, just a little bit, you know, so tense it slightly so it doesn't seem like this hard black thing but
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, it's true. It's kind of got yeah like right now.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, that's really cool.
mctavish: So,
Valerie Stoehr: Have that like purposely seen
Valerie Stoehr: Awesome.
mctavish: Thank you very much.
Valerie Stoehr: That's great.
Valerie Stoehr: Okay, so
Valerie Stoehr: Our talks, they're helping me so much.
Valerie Stoehr: Good, so
Valerie Stoehr: In a way, in a way, I made
Valerie Stoehr: Like I did what I wanted to do. I got that guide damn video uploaded.
mctavish: By the way, and you may want to, like, just like
mctavish: Click this often and get and and and share your screen or do you are you going to share me. Okay.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah okay, actually. And let's see, I will
Valerie Stoehr: I'll share what I have
Valerie Stoehr: So the point is kind of not exactly what we're looking at. But the point is what I did.
Valerie Stoehr: Share screen.
Valerie Stoehr: Share
Valerie Stoehr: Let's see.
Valerie Stoehr: Okay.
Valerie Stoehr: So,
Valerie Stoehr: That fucking hideous brown actually springing up in Chrome and stop the share
Valerie Stoehr: Screen.
Valerie Stoehr: Actually maybe here. I'll send it to you.
Valerie Stoehr: So I put it in the chat and you can bring it up in I eat a C brown
Valerie Stoehr: Or in Chrome to see, I think, a different
mctavish: Yeah, yeah. It's just like a waiter in Chrome. Yeah, kind of a gray. Wait.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah. And then when you start playing the audio.
Valerie Stoehr: The border like in Chrome, the fucking black border.
Valerie Stoehr: Show you know I modified, you know, the border property. It's like, Well, fuck you.
Valerie Stoehr: Know,
mctavish: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: I think maybe Firefox doesn't have that problem. I think when you play it. You don't see kind of the ghost remain and the rectangle
mctavish: It's interesting.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: So let's include the Clichy thing as
mctavish: It sees that whole box is a clickable.
mctavish: As the key indicators something
Valerie Stoehr: What I did is I pulled so. So after we spoke like I figured out how to, you know how to fuck to I upload. You know, this file so that I can have a website, you know, and kind of do all that. Right. The problem I was struggling with
mctavish: Uh huh.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, I was able to upload it to Blue House. Yay, you know, play it in the player. Yay. So, like, if you click Module one
Valerie Stoehr: Then you can see
Valerie Stoehr: That's kind of like demonstrating that
Valerie Stoehr: And you know so yay. And then I and so like I did that. And then I'm like, Okay, I, I think I may have told you some of this in email or I can't remember what but it was like, yeah. Where the fuck did I host this thing. Like how do I
Valerie Stoehr: Even get to the middle. How do I set this thing up. I couldn't remember just some basic stuff right
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, I'm because I'm not working in HTML and CSS. Right. So, like, how do I just set up this little structure again. And so like I went to some of my old code pens. That's where I had that kind of that modified player that I showed on the homepage.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, drop that in. You know, dropped in module one, and then Module two is largely copied from where I am in my class right now.
Valerie Stoehr: That I'm kind of working on getting through. It's kind of like work in progress and
Valerie Stoehr: It's like walking through molasses to kind of
Valerie Stoehr: You know what we're gonna do is
Valerie Stoehr: Have a pain on the right hand side that shows the transcript and then we'll be able to click, you know, which we want to go to
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah video and you know so I still don't have like a I want to write a VTT file of my own so that I could caption that that video that I made and kind of just do some stuff with it and have multiple tracks like maybe one that is subtitles one that's just narrative one that's
Valerie Stoehr: A major language.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, um, so I'm not done with that but but I just kind of took time out and I
Valerie Stoehr: Like, okay, so I work in Sublime Text and I go back to that Visual Studio code. Code studio, whatever the hell it is. Yeah. I mean code pans are nice because you don't have to think and you just have your different pens and you can kind of see
Valerie Stoehr: But then, and the sublime text is nice because it's self contained, like you were saying, but also I kind of like forgotten how to set up a site right
Valerie Stoehr: And so like my our in our afternoon indivisible group the coordinator stepping down after four years I was looking for someone else to to host it
Valerie Stoehr: Now we're talking about getting off Facebook. We don't have a website and I thought, Well, I, you know, maybe I should put together a website for them.
Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, and then it's good for me to think, you know, larger than a single page right to just think about how I'm like, how does that you know the right way to so um so that's kind of why like I basically just stepped back for a couple days.
mctavish: Mm hmm.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, did the exercise of going back to supplying text kind of writing my pages there, but then setting up you know the CSS directory in a JavaScript directory and pointing to a file and just kind of, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: The one on one type of stuff to just, yeah.
mctavish: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, and it has been a pain in the ass about I was updating on my local system and then pushing it up to blue host and then something would be wrong.
Valerie Stoehr: You know and like going back there. Upload. Upload. And then I just start working on blue host right just directly edit.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, right.
Valerie Stoehr: It UPDATE. UPDATE, AND THEN. Okay, remember to what download everything to, you know, it's like, where's my master thing.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, and I still feel like I'm on GitHub. You can actually host from there right for the
mctavish: Simple stuff.
mctavish: In doing. Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: So maybe I feel like maybe that is the answer, because I kind of just want to be able to work on my stuff and just iterate, iterate. You know, I have to like refresh after my smallest changes because I can fuck stuff so easily. Right.
mctavish: Sure, yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Um,
mctavish: And you can see it locally. Right. You know that, right, I mean,
Valerie Stoehr: Although some
mctavish: Like it's absolutely awesome idea.
Valerie Stoehr: It wasn't I was having
Valerie Stoehr: Issues. Yeah, probably. Cuz I didn't
Valerie Stoehr: I guess probably just because of being multimedia
Valerie Stoehr: Um,
Valerie Stoehr: Although yeah maybe if I go back to that now that things are more coherent.
Valerie Stoehr: And I have my like I think sometimes, there was a pointing my directory structures, maybe, maybe I pointed to the wrong file and I just got so frustrated. That's why just like
Valerie Stoehr: Went up to the actual, you know, let me just not have to translate from what's local and not working, versus what's really not working.
mctavish: Yeah. And if you have like relative links to everything right. I mean, so
mctavish: Like go down a directory and then into the CSS. So if everything's a relative link, you should be able to just double click on a file, and it comes up in
mctavish: Chrome or whatever. But whatever your default browser is of end. But then there is something though with like I run like a when I'm testing my stuff because it has to load.
mctavish: Cores restrictive things right. So it has to reload these sounds behind the scenes. It has to do an AJAX call, you know, so it's pulling it it's fetching files and
mctavish: And transcoding the buffer. And so it's actually doing that. And that's a chorus problem, right. So it's like, so all of a sudden, there's a security issue that when I do that, but if I just call
mctavish: Like an audio file, like on star fall. I'm just calling I'm calling way out of domain, but because I'm calling it just within an audio or a videotape. No problem.
mctavish: Okay. Does that sound like that for some reason the browser sees that as a sandbox, you know, I mean, it would have a problem, though, if it's like HTTPS calling HTTP, then sometimes it's like boom. Do you realize you can cross the security thing, you know.
mctavish: But if you're, if you call HTTP nuclear file.
mctavish: HTTP. You don't mean so if you
mctavish: You know, and if you're doing relative files. You don't know that sort of transparency, you in a way
mctavish: Yeah, so you should be able to, I think, for what you're doing. So far, I can't see where you've done a chorus thing, you know, so
mctavish: You're just using HTML.
mctavish: Tags. You know, you're using some of those things alone without so you should be able to do it without running a server.
mctavish: Uh huh. It's an easy thing to run a server, but it's just not easy.
mctavish: Easy.
mctavish: You know, so, so, so that is like, and he but I think in supplying text. I'm surprised. I'm wondering if you could just like upload from Sublime Text to blue host. I haven't done that I, you know, but it seems like you might be able to
Oh,
Valerie Stoehr: And also in Sublime Text. So I googled and I download like install the packages and there's a package that lets you just do what Control Alt
Valerie Stoehr: See to the wedding Chrome, but it seems like from what I can tell you, just like pick one, you can't you can't you can't view and multiple browsers, you just select which, in which browser, you want to view it.
mctavish: So three or four which one I'm saying
Valerie Stoehr: Or Sublime Text.
Oh,
mctavish: Yeah, like if I usually what I do is I have like this is maybe stupid, but I just haven't my direct you know my file directory open
mctavish: Yeah, so if I want to check on Firefox. I just write the file to Firefox and drag it to the safari. So I just like drag it over there, you know, just a. Should I just put it on top of the icon and then
mctavish: And for you right click and say open with, you know, and another browser.
Valerie Stoehr: Okay.
mctavish: So I never really work. I use some blind text only as a thumbnail pencil. It's like, you know, just with pretty calorie. Yes. A like I never, you know, so it has so much power that I never use
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: You know so and I in fact I don't really like when I was first a programmer. I did so much more in the console with them using like sadden graph like to interview to find and replace stuff and it was so much smarter, and now I feel like I'm often struggling with
mctavish: Sublime Text to do find and replace in a way that I
mctavish: Yeah, like, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: Did you get a license copy
mctavish: Know I should probably does like
Valerie Stoehr: What is that your main thing that you use for
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah yeah
Valerie Stoehr: I mean, and the Microsoft, whatever it is. Visual Studio code. Code studio, whatever, whatever, whatever, is that just because it has like kind of that corporate vibe, or is there more like I used it when I did my other classes. It was fine, you know,
mctavish: Yeah, I just feel like it's sort of more. I always hate like I just always hated ideas like I just hate
mctavish: Really like this this weight all around me like kind of restricting how I test and high
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: And I guess.
mctavish: They could maybe
Valerie Stoehr: As a code editor, though. Like, it kind of feels like
mctavish: Yeah, exactly. You're probably right. You're probably totally right. And I guess. Yeah, I just have always
mctavish: Yeah, no, I think you're probably right. And then you have the FTP built in, and like I think that probably you could Google Sublime Text and FTP and directly to blue host figure out
mctavish: A way.
mctavish: To do that, but, um, but, but then like probably the Microsoft product is just set up to do that, like, Well, where do you host, you know, where do you send this code, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: And plus, I might not even stay there.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, it's kind of more WordPress thought
Valerie Stoehr: Thing and
Valerie Stoehr: To make money. I should, you know, like maybe, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: Maybe I'll
Valerie Stoehr: Some sites with WordPress or something like that. Well, I might as well.
Valerie Stoehr: I could have something there. But, but, yeah, I just wanted to easily be able to jump anywhere.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, well, and then for validating the code. I'm all I have been using. I mean, usually I don't look right. I just like keep checking on my change out late
Valerie Stoehr: But there was something I like, why the fuck, isn't this working. So there's some like W three C has some validator
Valerie Stoehr: So then instead of pointing to my. It's like, I don't know where this you know what file I have where I think this is just local right now. So just to copy all and just dump it into the
Valerie Stoehr: Whole thing and then validate. Oh, okay. But then I kind of spent, you know, a minute, maybe trying to figure out what there's kind of like a validator built into Sublime Text right but I couldn't is there. I couldn't find a way to just do it from there.
mctavish: You know, I, yeah, I think. I mean, I think that was Sublime Text like again. It's like I do the same as you. It's like I and then if I want to troubleshoot something I throw in ways that I want to troubleshoot it
Valerie Stoehr: You know,
mctavish: So, and I don't usually I think because I'm a really bad typist I don't tend to write bad code.
mctavish: Yeah. Um, so, I noticed, like I've seen people other people's workflow, where they have like
mctavish: Which isn't to say this used to be mine. Maybe, but like where there's like hundreds of errors or something, you know, you go through, you know, and, and it just doesn't that doesn't really happen for me. So, and it's usually so clear where
Valerie Stoehr: Me.
mctavish: A problem. You know, we, I just forgot
mctavish: Yeah, embrace you know
mctavish: Yeah, so I try to
mctavish: And that's so stupid like that's what would make me look really stupid though if I went to get a development job that's precisely the thing that would make me look like a complete moron.
mctavish: In fact, I wouldn't get past the interviewer, you know,
mctavish: So,
mctavish: But Sublime Text is more. I think it has more of a theory that you'll add
mctavish: You can add utilities to it, right. Like, you can add you know different libraries or tools to it.
mctavish: Yeah, so it's like a bare bones thing that you add things to it. Whereas the, you know, like the Microsoft products more like
mctavish: Here they. Yeah, exactly.
mctavish: Yeah. And so, but that's really useful. And if you're comfortable with it. Yeah, go for it. Like, I'm just crabby about it, you know, and I don't you know it has that's completely legitimate.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: But exactly, but I'll, I'll just kind of keep figuring out my way with that. I mean, you're right. Like that idiot
Valerie Stoehr: Man who we have
Valerie Stoehr: To deal with, like, I, I, both in person and like on calls to like when they have to code.
Valerie Stoehr: Like it's
Valerie Stoehr: Our. This guy isn't even really coding, exactly, but they both, you know that manic wait like they just don't
mctavish: Yeah, exactly.
Valerie Stoehr: Do you like what, and then with us right we're like, oh,
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah border bottom equals 20 PX and then save you know refresh. Yeah, that's right. And then
Valerie Stoehr: Get it right
Valerie Stoehr: And they just like do this like crash.
mctavish: Of Shia yeah yeah
Valerie Stoehr: And like if I have lots of errors. It'll be like six of them, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Oh my goddess six problems.
mctavish: Yeah, right.
mctavish: Right, because it's like you're doing more of that work in your head. I know that because that that one job I had in New York. You know, and I was working with my brother and
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: I felt like such a moron. Thanks to this, Bob. His name was Bob Bushman, you know, and he was just
mctavish: And we are like me and there was this guy from India and a guy from, like, two guys from India.
mctavish: That were in there like one guy was the database. And they were so sweet. Like they brought me to go look. Get, get some food together. You know, they ordered for me like they were so
mctavish: Like brothers, you know, and one was had an arranged marriage that he was like he was emailing back and forth to her, they're just getting to know each other. It was so sweet. They're playing, but it was really sweet actually better than Americans date, you know,
mctavish: And
mctavish: Yeah, and then like so Bob Bushman is like I've done thousands and thousands of lines of code. And I think I've approached managers, because he's like
mctavish: Like he's just like, that's not the goal.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: And realize what He's such an idiot, because he was like
mctavish: I was like,
Valerie Stoehr: Yes.
mctavish: But then when he was fired. Actually, the and I took over the projects.
mctavish: Like the Indian guy like they were so sweet, because they were just like they just believe me.
mctavish: Yeah, and it was just like such a different way of being badly or something. It was just like so. But I think that's just it. You will not get it, you know. But then, so I think the best like for both of us. It's like we have to think
mctavish: That that's not the goal.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: Cuz I don't think you'll get that time.
Valerie Stoehr: You know. Mm hmm.
mctavish: And I don't think all the time.
Valerie Stoehr: Uh huh.
mctavish: And I have a lot of experience, but I'm not going to get a job.
mctavish: So, but it doesn't. So, so I think that and what's the other thing, and then I think the other thing is absolutely
mctavish: At every like the ends, dude. I mean, like the means
mctavish: Are the thing first, and then the end so like it because if you set up the means that's the science centric way of thinking, then
mctavish: I think at every point that's going to be what it was like my stuff. It's like not I make the shit is like no one wants to hear me to do their commercial website.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: You know, like when I tried that. Like they hate what I do.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah yeah
mctavish: It doesn't look like, what can it look like Amazon. You know, it's like, it will not, you know, so
Yeah.
mctavish: My sister just asked if I could help her with her, you know, if I wanted the job of doing her
mctavish: Squarespace thing and I could figure it out. I can do it. But it's like I just have come to realize that it's not the same skill set.
mctavish: Right. So if you're trying. And I think that your skill is probably more in thinking excessively and the thing about thinking excessively is that at every point in the process. It's simple.
mctavish: If it's not accessible to you.
mctavish: At the get go. It's probably not accessible.
mctavish: At the end, you know,
mctavish: So that's why I keep thinking I keep so for me I think that
mctavish: Being kind of stumble but ideas. It's like forced me into this style of working that
mctavish: Being a really bad type us to
mctavish: Means that I copy and paste, which means I'm seeing patterns.
mctavish: Yeah, it's that same thing over and over again don't know
mctavish: Yeah. So I think, I think that's probably so I think it's the thing
mctavish: I think that I would, at this point, because it's not like someone's sitting waiting for you to get the fuck ready to start producing commercial things you have two weeks.
mctavish: You know, because they're not doing that, like, then I think it's like well at every point, where are you attracted to.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: So don't try to do it because you think it'd be faster than it
mctavish: Is you can figure it out easier. But what do you like to do. And if you really like get up, then I would start I would take those rabbit holes in a way. Yeah, and watch get her videos to learn how it works, because it's not easy.
mctavish: Yeah, but once you get it. You don't have to learn all of it.
mctavish: But it's a useful tool and a lot of people use it. So if that's something that's attractive to you do that if it's something else that's attractive you like the Microsoft I me
mctavish: Fine, lot of people do. Microsoft is a really like I have a one of my dearest
mctavish: My favorite developers that I've ever worked with went to work for Microsoft
mctavish: He's always loved Microsoft
mctavish: Products and I love him. I love his he's our tribe.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: You know, so
Valerie Stoehr: I mean, I'm not even sure if that's what I want. But I remember I wasn't, I wasn't expected to be grossed out when I installed it because the course recommended you can use this through this through this and like, oh, it's free.
Valerie Stoehr: I'll do it.
Valerie Stoehr: It's probably, you know, I'll probably get grossed out. Oh.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, and
Valerie Stoehr: When I bought my Microsoft Surface
mctavish: Laptop after
Valerie Stoehr: You know, it's like, actually.
Valerie Stoehr: This is better than like those other windows laptops that are gross like Microsoft is very late to the game.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, but they're figuring out some stuff about how when you're this you know behemoth
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, everything's kind of in this beautiful clear functional way like they're kind of get it.
mctavish: Or yeah, exactly. I think that's true. And so
mctavish: Yeah, so I think it's like what you like.
mctavish: Yeah. Then, and you can change later but I'm just saying at every point that should be the first question is, do I feel good here. And if you look right here.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, you know,
mctavish: And it's not getting in your way, like that. I think that's really a good thing. There's nothing wrong with blue host like because the fact about blue host is it's just the same everywhere. You know, maybe that's not the thing to figure out the second
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah yeah
mctavish: And they're pretty cheap.
Valerie Stoehr: I
Valerie Stoehr: Go ahead.
mctavish: I mean they're cheap. They're affordable. Right. I mean, sounds like it's it's
Right.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Um, so, like what I'm really happy about is that, so in this process of, like, you know, getting yeah like a couple more pages on blue host and
Valerie Stoehr: Open up the see panel and
Valerie Stoehr: Like, why am I getting the certificate error problem when I've when it's installed on all the sites like what the fuck is going on, you know, how do we navigate all this
Valerie Stoehr: And then with trying to just do some, you know, like modify the audio tag. And like I was, I don't have my my menu doesn't change to be a hamburger when it's small, but I've kind of got
Valerie Stoehr: The navigation links up there and try to do some stuff and then like I want to turn off the default underlining of links so it doesn't compete with the
Valerie Stoehr: System underlying that like, how do I do that. And so with all my Googling and you know going to all these answers. Now, I just, I feel like like I did like
Valerie Stoehr: You know, I can look at the sample.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, I can just be part of that conversation right like people are
Valerie Stoehr: Having problems I'm having there's answers that include JavaScript ship and I can look at it and go, fun not touching that with a 10 foot pole or I can go all right that's. Oh, right. That's elegant shirt like
Valerie Stoehr: I just couldn't be part of that before it was kind of all Greek to me and now you're like that that thing I wanted where I felt like all those computer science boys, you know, had that private secret.
Valerie Stoehr: Curriculum in the room that I never got to be part of. I feel like I was in there too.
Valerie Stoehr: Like I know enough
mctavish: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, I'm like okay yeah I don't know how to do this thing. Okay, let me try to see if I can do that. No, I'd rather not. Thank you.
Valerie Stoehr: It's just not worth it to me now.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, got other priorities. I just my confidence, just like what route. You know, I don't feel like some cheater imposter anymore. And it's it's really good, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: And I am um you know like in my class even like even taking time to do this site like before it just felt like with the JavaScript thing like just fucking get through it fucking get through it fucking get through it.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, and now I feel like, okay, slow down, because I want to be able to like I like being able to see the old pens that I did.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, or and kind of having, you know, like their shit like, Oh, I did do all those like pseudo classes for CSS with the hover today. I remember anything about that. And a lot of that I didn't save. I didn't create pans. I didn't do anything. And so it's like okay you know now, I kind of know
Valerie Stoehr: What I don't care about you know what it might be important to save his documents, you know, and to just think about my work process going forward and our conversation last week about, you know, what do I want to get done. Next year, you know, how do I kind of start
Valerie Stoehr: Building artifacts, but also just by process right like where am I working. Where's my goddamn scratch pad, you know, where
Valerie Stoehr: Re things. I don't know that yet. Yeah, but it's worthwhile to figure that out.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, yeah. So it's just been really, really, it's been really good and and I'm also
Valerie Stoehr: Kind of very much
Valerie Stoehr: I mean, struggling with, but not really just grappling with. But not really, but just kind of swimming in that place of, like, what am I doing
Valerie Stoehr: Like, who am I, what am I doing
Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, what do I want to become right now like which biography
mctavish: Right, right.
Valerie Stoehr: Right. Like, I called a cousin about a zoom call that I set up for Thanksgiving. I called her on
Valerie Stoehr: Monday or Tuesday. Hey, want to do a zoom call she's like oh enough work. Can I call you back. And I thought, that's right, that's right. All my peers are at work right, I forgot like
Valerie Stoehr: You know I'm and I remember this developer who was in her early 50s. When she got laid off from my group at Thomson Reuters and and Robin felt like she may be was going to retire.
Valerie Stoehr: You know cuz she
Valerie Stoehr: Had enough money didn't have any kids, her husband like told her it would be fine. You know, and
Valerie Stoehr: And I checked in with her later. And she's like, like everyone she knew she was was working and and she felt so weird for her to kind of be so young, compared to
Valerie Stoehr: You know, it just felt odd to her and and and I've been thinking about her cuz still, I feel like what, fuck, I'm almost 60
Valerie Stoehr: So I am old, but, you know, but my
Valerie Stoehr: Like the Quaker retired people tend to be more older, you know, like I it's
Valerie Stoehr: You know, I'm not hanging like with the artists, the artist group right you know with the people who are kind of doing it this other hybrid way. And so I still feel a little like
mctavish: Yeah.
mctavish: You know, and
In between
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah yeah
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, and it whereas like ah I supposed to get a job. So they get a job. You guys should like, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: And I
Valerie Stoehr: Still that thing about like it just, I spent a couple hours doing something for work work that I said, I do. And it was like
mctavish: Yeah, I
Valerie Stoehr: hate this. I'm like, Am I a spoiled brat like surely I mean other people have full time jobs and they try to like do things like
Valerie Stoehr: You know, maybe I could just like do work stuff on Monday. I mean, am I such a spoiled brat, because I feel like I can't even do that, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: Cuz I don't know, I just, you know, the amount of being able to switch to other stuff had does just keep feeling
Yes.
mctavish: I know enough
Valerie Stoehr: And I know that if you know if my wise itself would talk to me right now my mind. Why is the self is like, just go, you know, go down the crazy path like just
Valerie Stoehr: Fucking do it.
Valerie Stoehr: But, you know, I'm just
Yeah.
mctavish: Yeah yeah
mctavish: Right, right.
Valerie Stoehr: Like it's this time where
Valerie Stoehr: You know so Carol's what 75, you know, do the numbers on this, you know, like when I'm 75 you know Carol's early 90s.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, like
Valerie Stoehr: The kind of like this is this is the best time for me to kind of like have that that retirement thing, you know, I'm not caregiving right now. You know, if they're also the one who is needing care.
Valerie Stoehr: Before
Valerie Stoehr: He didn't care you know neither one of us got her cancer diagnosis yet. You know,
Valerie Stoehr: Just
Valerie Stoehr: That stuff can just disappear so quickly.
Valerie Stoehr: The ability to just do the things I wanted to do.
Valerie Stoehr: Right. No, it does feel like kind of
Valerie Stoehr: This word it, you know, horror, horror, the opportunity to do that right now. So that's all that stuff, you know, I'm still
Read
mctavish: It for me. Like sometimes it helps to actually watch videos of people that are doing what I'm interested in.
Valerie Stoehr: The city like like like artists.
mctavish: Like the
mctavish: That series is great. By the way, if you want to see art. It's on PBS. You know, like an A and then just art and then 21
mctavish: Okay, there's like a whole backlog of years of our 21 episodes. You can watch. But what I think is so helpless. Their artists so sure you're not trying to become a painter or something but but it's the same idea, though, because it's like
mctavish: Now the studio. They have the studio practice and they just
mctavish: Completely self defined
mctavish: And they just do this thing without and they're not always asking themselves, should I be child Punjabi. I mean, they're, they're just that we know of. Anyway, but there seems like by this time, if they're on our 20 when they've kind of
mctavish: Hit their stride with sustenance, you know, and so
mctavish: It's just interesting and then or I listen right watch you know biographies of other artists like because at the beginning, like, it looks like a totally bad idea.
mctavish: They didn't have enough money, they are struggling with rent with, you know,
mctavish: With it, it's so
mctavish: It's not like
mctavish: You know. So anyway, I just think that those things helped me
mctavish: Like feel like, okay, there's this these other people this other tribe that I can be
mctavish: Part of
mctavish: And they work hard.
mctavish: You know i mean they're not likely they're not laying around or so. I mean, they're working hard, but it's so self direct so you can see what that looks like.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, yeah.
mctavish: And and they don't know, like, a lot of times we'll see like unless like at its best ever 21 mostly it's just like, following the artists right like so you don't hear this big interviewer.
mctavish: Voice or anything. You're just going to watch them in studio and clearly someone has asked that question because they're answering something that
mctavish: You don't hear that person you know so and you can see that they're struggling with, they don't know, they have a new material, they're working with it. They're not sure if it's gonna work. You know, they're struggling with, you know,
mctavish: That you know they have some iterations, they're not happy with us. You know, it's like
mctavish: So they like that until you know so you can see that that that's still hat. That's always happening for them.
mctavish: Yeah, no, they don't know why they had an impulse to do this thing. But they're trying it, and seems like there's a structural problem with, you know, it's like they're just always figuring it out like kind of in
mctavish: You know, it doesn't that doesn't go away. So I think that that's like, you know, in terms of knowing exactly what the job is we don't you know because it's like that's what say with them. They don't know exactly.
mctavish: What the job is for the next six months, like
mctavish: What they're making. Exactly.
Valerie Stoehr: Well, you know,
mctavish: They know they're feeling what they're not quite, you know, it says it's sort of interest. And I think it's
mctavish: Helpful to see that that's this pursuit. That's this
mctavish: And that's it. There is a different kind of
mctavish: You know methodology research methodology or something that if
mctavish: You're worried Thompson writer who has a definite endpoint that you better fit into or or even if it's like even before like it's about the thing itself. It's about like whether you fit with that with the marketing lady.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: And like to drink scotch or something.
Valerie Stoehr: Yes, yeah.
mctavish: And can talk about it a certain way for the meeting.
mctavish: Yeah, so
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: So i but i think that
Valerie Stoehr: It looks really nice. Just like just scrolling on the art homepage to it just makes yeah
mctavish: Like yeah, exactly. Yeah.
mctavish: Exactly. I watched things all the time.
mctavish: Because it helps me
mctavish: It really helps me a lot.
Like Trina
mctavish: And also, it raises my bar, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: But it raises my bar, not in a way that's like when I was working my brother agreed like Fast Company and stuff.
mctavish: Because I could get competitive in that sphere.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: But like, that's that, you know, reading about like arts business like I did that, you know, at, at first, and I just show that we're talking about that this morning. It's like, not what we do.
mctavish: Yeah, other people do.
mctavish: Businesses selling going to craft fairs and that's what they do.
mctavish: Again, we're not successful with
mctavish: Optics and selling them, you know,
So,
mctavish: So it's this other thing.
mctavish: You know, it's just like you're you thought, well, if I'm gonna learn how to about code, then that means I'm going to be a junior developer. That's what I would think to, you know, always be like, Well, I'm better hedge my bet. You bet. If we won't be probably so then it's something else.
mctavish: That's a little bit more amorphous, though, so it's hard to kind of put your finger on exactly
Valerie Stoehr: Well, that the language analogy is really helped me where I'm
Valerie Stoehr: You know, if you go to Germany, like it or even with me with Spanish like you know like hearing it. You know, I can kind of, sort of, I mean like my skills have become dismal. But, you know, pretend they were back where I know
Valerie Stoehr: It's one thing to just be able to hear and understand it's a whole other thing to be able to speak it.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, so I think I'm just trying to get through this fucking JavaScript course so that I can like here, you know, see it and understand it just kind of like if I'm
Valerie Stoehr: You know, doing some accessibility work without, you know, I can look at other people's code.
Valerie Stoehr: And see what they did.
Valerie Stoehr: I'm probably never gonna like I felt better when I copied in all that stuff from the course.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, in that
Valerie Stoehr: Page of mine. I thought, yeah, like, just for me to be able to modify you know to understand what's going on. To be able to just kind of modify it. I don't really have to
Valerie Stoehr: I'm never gonna like probably construct these complex you know callbacks and functions myself really that are like this involved, but just to be able to, like, oh,
Valerie Stoehr: Someone else did that. Okay, I could just grab it, you know, make my changes, you know that. So the difference of being able to, you know, read the Latin text versus, say it.
Valerie Stoehr: Has really been helpful. It just kind of took this burden off my shoulder.
mctavish: You know, yes.
Valerie Stoehr: Good enough to hear what they're saying.
mctavish: Mm hmm.
Valerie Stoehr: As it and asked where the bathroom is
mctavish: Well, you know, I think that the other thing too that strikes me so much about you is that I think you know what's so interesting about like that. I've talked to you about, like, yeah, and jam stack.
mctavish: But the thing is like when you listen to people. I mean, there's so much of guys like there that are just I can't remember they. This is one guy really love him. He's just like
mctavish: And he, but he talks about like the it's it's kind of like taking front end development back like that's the whole point of it.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, yeah. I mean, Chris. Chris coyer kind of talk
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah yeah
Valerie Stoehr: Right.
mctavish: Yeah, I like him a lot. And then there's this other guy anyway. But the thing about that. So I think that's so true.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, like we don't need you guys anymore.
mctavish: Yeah, you don't. And so, but I mean, and the thing is, like, but even more so that's like HTML, CSS, JavaScript,
mctavish: Yeah, but even more. There's the people that are CSS freaks.
mctavish: They're like, everything should be HTML and CSS.
mctavish: Oh I barely any JavaScript.
mctavish: Mm hmm like JavaScript is only meant to do something very specialized
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: You absolutely need it. But if you don't need it and don't like it like for all buttons essentially for a long time, you can just like use them navigation Lee like I protects. That's what it is.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: You know, you don't have to do like I had a friend last week. She was like, like my artist friend Catherine Meyer, so she is so she
mctavish: gave me this. She said, could you just help me with this JavaScript, you know, and it was it was completely without context you gave me this JavaScript file and it's like all jQuery. It was ugly as hell because it's that single page design thing where everything is run by JavaScript.
mctavish: And it's And worse yet, it was all in jQuery. So it was like it wasn't even vanilla jQuery was like an old library that like from because before like browsers were so desperate.
mctavish: Yeah, it was really helpful to have something that would abstract away.
mctavish: Some of their quirks.
mctavish: There was a library called jQuery that people are using for a really long time and it had like some functionality that didn't appear in vanilla JavaScript to like yes sexiest seven right so so that so it's helpful.
mctavish: Yeah, but because like all this code got loaded with jQuery.
mctavish: Yes, sexy SMS happen. And so then, like, then there was a style where people just put in shims. They're called like just teeny things. They're just fix, like a lot of the browsers don't do it. Just this one thing
mctavish: And it's standardized. It's got to be the standard
mctavish: So we're going to still use that syntax. So you can use the syntax where everyone's going
mctavish: Yeah, jQuery stayed with its own syntax.
mctavish: So you're always reading in this other
mctavish: Language, you know, like this. So it's like I just drank because it's like, well, vanilla JavaScript can do all those things. But you're using a standard
mctavish: Kind of like Oracle weirdo.
mctavish: Procedures for database stuff versus sequel.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: Plains sequel just winds up a good reason to deviate from playing sequel right so so jQuery with it, but it's stuck in all this old code.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
So what do you do
mctavish: Well, so I asked her, like, Well, you know, I didn't understand why are you using this thing even
mctavish: Yeah. Yeah. And then six I thought well because she has this other project that is where she is used the end there's some some some some CSS.
mctavish: You know, some content management thing. So, and it's like all the security stuff with the so I thought maybe there's some reason that she has to deal with this file, it's her own website and our own website is really simple. It's just a gallery.
mctavish: It's just like an art.
mctavish: I mean, it's just like an artist's website where you just want to see the pictures.
Valerie Stoehr: And really make it to someone make it for her.
mctavish: She had bought it. So the template and she bought it because she liked the web did her gallery. And I said, I don't even like your doubt. I mean, honestly I didn't say that, but it's like, like I feel like
mctavish: I feel mobile first wins. So it's like so, making it into this weird she likes that weird grid structure that ends up emerging and it's like, so she has all this weight, but she paid for in jQuery.
mctavish: You know, and then like it's her images. That's our work. She's amazing artists. She's a brilliant artist.
mctavish: But so, then
mctavish: You know, so then I just, it just felt like some way so but she wants that grid. So it's like okay well use grid, you'll see us. That's great. If you're like really bad but but
mctavish: To me it's like
mctavish: Like for you, like, so what you would do simply right if you wanted to show a bunch of pictures, picture, picture, picture, picture. What's wrong with that.
mctavish: Like what is wrong.
Valerie Stoehr: And then just decide about the padding between them and just spend your energy on that.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: And then like so. Then all of a sudden like you go to a large screen and you have like so. Then you're like, Well, I could like expand you know better. So, but then what is that that's flex box so
mctavish: Right, but don't do more work in that like hardwired into this like that. It goes over he you know it's a
mctavish: Right. That's a fucking dry, you know, and then it's not even modern, you know, it's, I mean I'd sort of me and certainly don't use JavaScript to do it right so
mctavish: So, and then, then, because then it was her back button. That wasn't working. So all of this to say her back button that miraculous thing.
mctavish: Is like single page web design meant that it think it robs that history. So you still the history object from the, from the browser. It's not like the browser does this, like, you know, what's the Back button for, you know,
mctavish: So we fight the Back button. You better have a good reason to fight the Back button.
mctavish: So it's, it's, like, so you you
mctavish: Hijack them. The back button. So then you're going to have your own you. So then you get to. Okay, so I'm going to take on all the problems with back buttons like why do that. No, but they would. And then, so the history object, right, because they want that nice you know URL to show like
mctavish: To lie to you about what you're actually where you are.
mctavish: They want it to be like, so it feels like
mctavish: We're actually navigate. So it feels like you're in the old school web but yeah
mctavish: Because it's just like, it's just navigating the web because in so so causes it's so difficult. Right.
mctavish: So why do you have to do that right because you could be like
mctavish: I mean, that's the thing about anchors right so you can just get go. Go to that section good that section. That's it. You know, it's like, you can do that for a really long time. So then all of a sudden you have a button that you want.
mctavish: To, you know, you want to do something else at the button that's not
mctavish: With a click thing.
mctavish: You know, so
mctavish: And, you know, like for you, you want
mctavish: This is
Valerie Stoehr: Like you
mctavish: Can't stand these native audio player. So you just want to put like a little pretty little go button. Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Well, and the thing is, like, you know, knowing that behavior with the it's like, Okay, nevermind. You know, like
Valerie Stoehr: You know, anything that kind of has that sort of complexity.
mctavish: It's like, yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Pocket then i mean you know the native stuff isn't that bad and you know it's going to get better.
mctavish: And you know you can do almost anything with CSS, like I just don't know how like so. But, you know, you can like so you know like you can style the audio.
mctavish: Is so you know there's like you can do right it's something you can't do so. So yeah, like so. You said why fight the things you can do, right, because I because you're like okay well I just want to have my own play button. But what about what about falling
mctavish: Oh yeah, maybe I want my own. But, you know, so, so, so, so, then yeah, then you're back to this fact that while you know the browser already thought of those things.
mctavish: You know, so, um, so, yeah, I don't know, it's, I think, so I for me. My feeling is that your HTML, CSS.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm. That know that yes yeah I mean that is very clear to me. Yeah.
mctavish: So great.
mctavish: Yeah, there's a lot of people are shitty and CSS like it's almost like if you're a JavaScript thinker. But you know, that's like people that you did like go tues you know ENCODE, have you ever, like so, spaghetti code right where this go to is everywhere.
mctavish: And it was like a nightmare of coding. So like people are like, that's a shitty way to code a procedural coding people
mctavish: Like, that's why there's these other things like object oriented. You know, like this. So, so just doing everything in JavaScript means that sometimes you miss this elegant solution that is declarative.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: Because you're doing all this procedural stuff and jobs and but but okay. So, but there's but you believe in declarative right because that's
mctavish: Clear the put as much semantic the information that screen readable because accessibility is probably going to end up being your strong suit.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: So you put that means that you're putting a lot and HTML itself like you're almost working in HTML to the last second.
mctavish: You know when you add in some CSS.
mctavish: And then you're doing all of this stuff and CSS.
mctavish: Yeah, until you have to add JavaScript.
mctavish: Yeah. So to me it's like you're doing almost 80% of your work in HTML. Yeah, because that's where accessibility lives.
mctavish: Yeah, like the CSS stuff. It's doesn't have anything to do with accessibility. Yes, I can help you.
mctavish: You know, get more accessible.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, well, and one thing that happened when I copied some of my old pens in there is that I was using articles and sections and
Valerie Stoehr: You know content, you know, blah, blah, blah. And I've liked forgotten some of that stuff. So when I saw at first with my simple little site, you know, I was trying to have like
Valerie Stoehr: Here's my content section got two articles, you know, the first article is this one video tag, you know, actually. The next one is my other video tag.
Valerie Stoehr: Ivan the puppet. And then the one from class and then I was doing something I can't remember what I think it's what I was trying to dropping in that code from the class, then where I was making it more complex with showing the events that happened in the
Valerie Stoehr: Key file and then yes something wasn't working. And so finally, then when I copied it all over to the validator I had some air where you can't put the
Valerie Stoehr: I don't know, you can't put something in the section tag that I had
Valerie Stoehr: You know, I had done side broken the syntax rule. It's like, yeah, I don't remember this shit. So then I just stripped all those, you know, a hierarchy things out of it. Because like for right now. I can't really trip on that I kind of wanted it to be all beautiful and kind of have my
Valerie Stoehr: You know the stuff you're supposed to put in the header and
Valerie Stoehr: All that semantic information. I thought, well, that'd be lovely to just extend that
Valerie Stoehr: But so that's like that place. I want to be. But I think right now like get through my multimedia stuff, you know, and I'm
Valerie Stoehr: Gonna get it clean, clean, clean, so just out that all went live and just focus on this. And then I think when I'm done, then I go back to the stuff I've forgotten.
Valerie Stoehr: And I get all refreshed on like God.
Valerie Stoehr: And then I can start setting up because that's the part that
Valerie Stoehr: Like I can see even with my three page thing I'm struggling about like I love my, you know, I want the information structure to be like really
Valerie Stoehr: Clear and
Valerie Stoehr: Liable so that like so should you know where my classes. And where are my ideas you know where you don't
Valerie Stoehr: Don't throw them in. If you don't need to, you know, and keep it at, you know, to keep that all
Valerie Stoehr: That thinking really clean right
Valerie Stoehr: So that if I just wanted to change, you know, this player but not that player around my players. I just want to experiment on this.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah. Hey, or is it on this part of this page. And so again, I'm thinking, oh my god, like my CSS file just from those three pages.
Valerie Stoehr: Like, and from carrying over pans. When I was working on that stuff right where the point was to modify the video tag and the point was to modify the audio tag right so
Valerie Stoehr: You know, like I wouldn't normally have that in there. But now we're playing with multimedia, so why not, but I can see like how quickly that CSS files, just like what the fuck is in here.
Valerie Stoehr: Right. You know, there's hardly any content there. Right. And so, so, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: So that'll kind of be I think that that place to go back to that kind of dovetails with accessibility in a way
mctavish: Yeah yeah
Valerie Stoehr: So get refreshed on all that semantic best practice.
mctavish: Yes. Yeah, exactly. I would love to do actually like almost like a reading group about that.
Valerie Stoehr: Uh huh.
mctavish: You know when you're ready. Like, just to do
mctavish: Like to like pick something and maybe it's even a book, you know, but like a CSS or three it like a really up to date. Yes, even just read through it really feel like I got the power of this I know which tool to pack.
mctavish: And then the other end. And for me, it helps me understand the whole
mctavish: Yeah, instead of like special case by special case, it's just like learn understand the whole of it. So you can think like that.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: And then, and then, like, same with
mctavish: And then learning the access to some extent that modern accessibility don't find it, you know.
mctavish: Just what is it like, how would you write a page from the get go, that and that should be what you do, like that's like if all you do is have an ugly, ugly, ugly, but semantically true like a very like it has the permission exactly laid out where you mean it.
mctavish: Does
Valerie Stoehr: And I think that that could be like cuz maybe I want to be able to just give that talk to somebody
Valerie Stoehr: Right. You know, like I
Valerie Stoehr: Put that together.
mctavish: Yes.
Valerie Stoehr: I have that as kind of
Valerie Stoehr: You know, maybe it's something I you know it's building out that portfolio or just kind of the stuff that I feel competent doing
Valerie Stoehr: And so, you know, I thought like, I'd be doing it simultaneously like you know my starter point was one of my old files that have that all in it, but yeah.
mctavish: Yeah yeah
Valerie Stoehr: That will come a little later, but that's
mctavish: Ready, we can do it. Like if you want to just like to, like, I wanted to get just get through this media thing, you know.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, right.
mctavish: Yeah, that makes sense to me.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: Cuz I yeah
Valerie Stoehr: That makes sense. And what's nice because I've been thinking, oh god.
Valerie Stoehr: You know I'm going to have to go back and do all that, you know, my HTML class all over again, my CSS click, but then it is like riding a bicycle. You know, like now.
Valerie Stoehr: Right. How do I do that again. Oh yeah, right. Google
Valerie Stoehr: Oh yeah, yeah, instead of just like everything being a mountain, you know,
mctavish: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Kind of, Oh, I remember when we work through this. I remember when I did those pseudo classes. I remember this. Yeah, all those articles I kind of remember how that works. Sort of.
Valerie Stoehr: I remember you can do like a side panel navigation thing and think about that being, you know, the semantic content and
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, so I can't like remember it well enough to do it, but I know it'll, it'll just be faster to kind of go back there again.
mctavish: And the other thing is like I think being opinionated like having a manifesto, like, it's like you said, I think it's so great. Like, if you were to write this thing at the same time as you're learning it
mctavish: Yeah, it's like, because then you can just release a ton of stuff.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, yeah, no.
mctavish: Like, just like like the all this like Java potent like before I would be like, Oh, I should do that. We should do that like about all the JavaScript potential, but it's like
mctavish: Just going to release that release that release that I've never gonna, I hate that. So, no don't want it don't believe in it. Not manifesto. And I think that's that will be true.
mctavish: For you, right, like, there'll be because there's so many ways you can go. But then I think the thing about the CSS selectors. If you get if we read a book together. We're really into it.
mctavish: Our of selectors and then the and cascading yes eating. Exactly. You know, they like the brilliance of cast the cast
mctavish: Exactly and like what you don't need to say again what you do and then and now there's this brilliant thing I think about CSS variables. So you can just say this is these are my colors.
mctavish: Yeah, just put it up the top so you don't have to keep remembering what was that coding and you know some
mctavish: Just there it is. And then you just so I think that if we did it because that was CSS is like sequel it you know it's selectors. It's like
mctavish: A Venn diagrams, you know,
mctavish: So it's more like sequel sequel thinking them like c++ thinking
Valerie Stoehr: Yay. Yeah.
So,
mctavish: That's and I feel like that's the because you have this information and then all you're asking, as you're
mctavish: Just
Valerie Stoehr: applying some. And that's why, like if you're
Valerie Stoehr: It's design thinking right if you're smart about your structure if you smart about like what the fuck you're doing
Valerie Stoehr: And how you're structuring it how you're thinking about what the, you know, the problem is you're trying to solve it. If you know what the hell you're doing
Valerie Stoehr: Then the CSS code is just like there's nothing to it. Right. Oh, I just know in my, you know, in my end us you know with this class, I want to do that.
Valerie Stoehr: And with the blah, blah, blah. You know, in the body for the list with the blah, I want to do that. That's all I want to do because I set it up in that beautiful way right
Valerie Stoehr: articulate our 21 when I look at that, like those are the types of
Valerie Stoehr: Like those my sites are going to look like that, you know, it's where you're syndicating information when you have articles you know you've got sections. You've got content, you know, what's their relationship to each other.
mctavish: Yeah, right.
Valerie Stoehr: And you just structure it that way, and then
mctavish: You don't even have time for the CSS.
Valerie Stoehr: Right exactly you're home free.
Valerie Stoehr: Yes, because it's all Anna.
Valerie Stoehr: Or just go slap in some pretty styles and decide what font you want you know like a tough one. I think should be
Valerie Stoehr: Right, or am
Valerie Stoehr: I yeah
Yeah.
mctavish: Yeah. So I think, I think that that's the way of thinking.
mctavish: Yes. And then people are just really thinking back now. They're just like, whoa, before it was so girly. But now it's like
Yeah.
mctavish: Yep. Don't know how to do that don't want to know how
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: Yeah, it's all out to this payment thing. Yeah.
Yep.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah and now it and instead of being like, I don't want to do JavaScript because I don't like I didn't understand the difference between
Valerie Stoehr: JQuery and JavaScript. I was kind of learning that in the course and what you said was like, oh yeah, click. I get that. Okay, now like before it was just all Greek to me. Right. And so now that I know what that thing is. And it's not just a mystery.
Valerie Stoehr: No, it feels very easy.
Valerie Stoehr: To not go there because I kind of know what it is, instead of like, oh, I'm just so dumb. I can't. And there's this whole thing I'm missing. I'm so dumb.
Valerie Stoehr: Like okay, I don't really
mctavish: It doesn't even perform well so anymore. So it's all right. It's like an old thing that like if you were hired into a company and you had to slog through old code then yeah, you have to notate Corey, but you own that that might that maintenance that will never happen to you.
Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Three. Excellent.
mctavish: Yeah, well, yeah, we should find a good yes I do find that easy. You can read anything on line right but it might be nice to actually have a book, a CSS three books.
mctavish: Because it just
mctavish: It was just nice to read
mctavish: Sometimes like the whole of it, like, read it like it's a literature and, you know, like it's
Valerie Stoehr: I purchased the
Valerie Stoehr: It's downstairs. It's not right here I purchased the forms book from like you know how smashing comes out with
Valerie Stoehr: Them. And so I got there. But actually, I'm gonna get it. I'll be back. I'll show you something.
Valerie Stoehr: So this is from the before times
Valerie Stoehr: Form design patterns.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, and I got it, like, you know, and of
Valerie Stoehr: Or early 2019 so it's when I was working on the early HTML, CSS classes in the series. I don't think I've quit a job yet so it's from way earlier because I didn't. And because when like when I was young.
Valerie Stoehr: When I was in, I think, third, and fourth grade. My parents gave me a dictionary for Christmas and I had it by my bad. And just like kind of read
Valerie Stoehr: The dictionary and then it would have rules about syntax and rules, you know, publishing and it just had like, you know, meta stuff about it. In addition to the dictionary. I just like read it. And for me, like during the day. I don't tend to read, but like in bad
Valerie Stoehr: Like, that's right. So I put it by the bad
Valerie Stoehr: And I thought,
Valerie Stoehr: Because sometimes that's where I'll just read that kind of rules based stuff, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: Yes, I'll just try to get these, like, you know, patterns, kind of like reading. So I did that for a while. It's not like I remember this ship very well. But, um, but, but what's interesting is that the the book, the physical book design sucks.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, so I kind of, it's you know, it's nice content. It's all about just like, don't be fancy of fucking morons. Like, you know, here's how radio buttons work don't fight it. Like, do this, don't do this. It's very
Valerie Stoehr: You know, it's, it's good.
Valerie Stoehr: But the physical pages like they're the way it's put together. It's just they they didn't have a book designer, it's just it's way too many pages. The white space is like all wrong. It's kind of, it's weird. It's kind of like they printed it out on a printer.
Valerie Stoehr: And then I sent it to someone to bind it up and put a cover on it. You know, it's just proportions are like really goofy, but um
Valerie Stoehr: But you like it.
Valerie Stoehr: Again, not that this is current because I'm not looking at it right now and focusing on other things, but it is really helpful for me to kind of have like a
mctavish: rule book. Same way, yep. It's like this is the this is the overview of
mctavish: Your rules. Yeah.
mctavish: Yeah yeah
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, there's five chapters chapter one. Yeah, one
mctavish: Theory.
mctavish: It's like the theory book.
Yeah.
mctavish: Yeah, that's what I think. So it's almost like reading like it's hard to read through like the W three seed documents, you know,
mctavish: I find it useful. If I could read through them. I think that would be, it's just
mctavish: Very useful because you get the theory of it.
mctavish: Yes. And then it doesn't matter if you memorize it. It's just, but that, you know, this is
mctavish: A Theory of what how a cascade works.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
You know,
mctavish: Yeah, and then you can kind of feel like the intent, like, then that kind of way of thinking the paradigm for it.
Yeah.
mctavish: Alright so there'll be like a reading thing about let's let's kind of keep our eye out for something really good about accessibility. Let's. But that's the thing that's hard to get better be 2019 or, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: Or 2020 year old and it can I know like
Valerie Stoehr: Like right now, during my
Valerie Stoehr: During this course, like I'm not doing it.
mctavish: Yeah yeah yeah that makes sense.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: It's a whole. It's kind of a different way of thinking or something. But it's kind of nice to know that you're going that direction, right, because it's like
Valerie Stoehr: Let me grow.
Valerie Stoehr: I mentioned, like a study books for the accessibility exam.
And
Valerie Stoehr: I'm, um,
Valerie Stoehr: So I've got this one.
mctavish: Did you just printed it out.
Valerie Stoehr: I this is the, um, I became a member to be able to buy the study guides
mctavish: Oh,
Valerie Stoehr: For the exams and
Valerie Stoehr: And so it's kind of what a
Valerie Stoehr: Good Table of Contents here.
Valerie Stoehr: And this is about the Certified Professional and accessibility core competencies credential.
Valerie Stoehr: It's their foundational certification. It represents practical application of broad cross disciplinary knowledge about number one disabilities. Number two, accessibility and universal design and three accessibility related standards laws and management strategies. So it has this
Valerie Stoehr: Thing. You're supposed to go through
Valerie Stoehr: You it's backwards to me. But you can see it right. Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, and then
Valerie Stoehr: For the table of contents.
mctavish: How much did you pay the train that
I'm
Valerie Stoehr: 200 bucks or so, like there was joining to be a member. And then there was joining on looking. Let's see it. Oh, and then there was buying this separately. I really, I think I might have paid four or $500 for the combination of two things.
Valerie Stoehr: And then I have this skinny one here.
Valerie Stoehr: Oh yeah, that was the core one the first
Valerie Stoehr: Test and then this is the one where you have to know. I think JavaScript and shit. This one's more technical
Valerie Stoehr: So here's the table of contents.
Valerie Stoehr: So it sort of is the rule book.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, and
Valerie Stoehr: And I might have a digital copy and I might not, but I could
Valerie Stoehr: We could discuss I could possibly cheat and give you a copy
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, anyway.
Valerie Stoehr: So this is kind of, you know, like they decided that
Valerie Stoehr: This is the shit. You should know to get that certification and so it's you know it's something right. It's not bad for a
Valerie Stoehr: You should know this stuff.
Valerie Stoehr: And that that first one you know does non digital. It does digital it. You have to know the standards, but it's things about disabilities.
Valerie Stoehr: Like certain
Valerie Stoehr: Certain conditions and
Valerie Stoehr: I don't know, just stuff about people with Parkinson's might have this going on or, you know, there's a certain disease that does this, you know, kind of being able to identify certain things.
Valerie Stoehr: And like saying people with disabilities, instead of disabled people, some of the, you know, just get your shit together about how you use language and
Valerie Stoehr: So that's been sitting in my file drawer, as you know,
Valerie Stoehr: A possible place to go after I
Valerie Stoehr: Get through here. It's, um,
Valerie Stoehr: The place.
Valerie Stoehr: It's I. A. P.
mctavish: Dad.
mctavish: pulled it up. Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, and then
Valerie Stoehr: I bought these from D qu e i think it is UK
Valerie Stoehr: Like if you Google on you know training stuff for the accessibility exam.
mctavish: Yep, I can see, see I got it, yeah.
mctavish: Yeah.
mctavish: Well, the thing about my work, too, is I know it's like it's not good for people that are want really high contrast cited things
mctavish: You know, so it's kind of assuming that you're going to go to a screen reader or, you know, you're going to have the sound.
mctavish: Yeah, it's sort of interesting because it's like
mctavish: You know, what do you do about it. So, but I think it's an interesting thing to play with and
mctavish: And I kind of like, you know, that one thing that I sent you about people that are doing all take
mctavish: Yeah artistry since I kind of like to into their stuff a little bit more. That's kind of like, it's not really deep, you know, but it's but at the same time. Is it is sort of interesting about they put a lot of opportunities to be able to like where they were, they record their own audio.
mctavish: Yeah, so, so it's kind of interesting from some of those perspectives about
mctavish: Like instead of having all this tax you can say, do you want to listen to a sailor.
mctavish: Yeah.
mctavish: Be that text and it's like they are boys reading it instead of a screen readers.
mctavish: Yeah. And then, so there's stuff like that and also with images. They're kind of talking about just a lot of the politics of all tags. Like, who does the descriptors. You know, like soap. It's
mctavish: Know Before there was this idea that, you know, it's kind of within an artist scenario to so like if there's images like on a music, art museums website that it was the curator, or it was someone
mctavish: You know, like an accessibility specialist would put these captions, you know up for the images but then that actually when it's art, you kind of like the artist has a
mctavish: Should have a Sam at because
mctavish: Their work. You know, so they have a backstory.
mctavish: And then a lot of talking about like if you have a picture of like you write on a website.
mctavish: Then what does the caption say
mctavish: Yeah, you know, white girl that's older, you know, like, like you're. I mean, it's like so.
mctavish: They already kind of talking about that, like,
mctavish: Where, where does identity come in and like be interesting thing, like do you put in that your waiter, you're not like and and if you leave it out, like, Why did you leave it out.
mctavish: Yeah, you know. So stuff like that, like, you know, and about gender and about
mctavish: Yeah, so they had some examples of descriptions
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: That are actually interesting.
mctavish: You know about the image itself, you know,
mctavish: And choices that
mctavish: To make around
mctavish: You know, because like if you don't care about the identity but like people do care about the, you know, so like where does that
mctavish: Yeah, then you know
Valerie Stoehr: I was reading some similar stuff when I was looking at when I was all excited about that job that pays 20 bucks an hour.
Valerie Stoehr: Right.
Valerie Stoehr: The Dallas Art Museum, you know, which I didn't do anything with. But that I read the best practices on it and
Valerie Stoehr: Because I hadn't thought about, like, and it was saying like, it's not a bad thing to use color like in those descriptions, which I kind of thought. I hadn't really thought
Valerie Stoehr: I kind of thought that was bad. It's like, no, you know, because you know people who like they lost their site later or
Valerie Stoehr: You know, like
Valerie Stoehr: They may know color like it's not to say that it's a, you know, yellow whatever indebted at it and and and it also talked about that identity stuff and you know light skinned woman with that added on.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: Yeah. Yeah, it's interesting.
mctavish: But
Valerie Stoehr: We can just go all out tags and 22. I mean, just like total deep dive into alt tags would be amazing, you know,
mctavish: Yeah, I think about that, like with my, you know, with all the SVG stuff like
mctavish: Like if each of those
Valerie Stoehr: Right.
mctavish: You know objects have
mctavish: Night. Like, where does the LT
Valerie Stoehr: Go.
mctavish: You know, just to go on each one of those circles are
Valerie Stoehr: Right.
mctavish: You know. So is that a cacophony of
mctavish: Yeah, of alt tags or is it. It's probably on the SVG element itself. So it's like as if the whole thing was the image.
Mm hmm.
mctavish: You know, it's interesting. Like, where do you
mctavish: Put explanatory
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm. And like I can imagine that you've got all tech sound that it's not your soundtrack.
mctavish: Mm hmm.
Valerie Stoehr: But your images are like sounds so like the yellow stuff, you know,
mctavish: Yeah yeah yeah
Valerie Stoehr: You know, there's a, you know, the big brown block or
Valerie Stoehr: And you read
I can
mctavish: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: That's kind of how to convey what the page looks like, you know,
mctavish: Right, right.
Valerie Stoehr: You could kind of have words, you know, like, you know, a yellow triangle emerges, you know, from the top. Whoops, there
Valerie Stoehr: And then blue
Valerie Stoehr: Here you kind of like talk about all the actors coming in that have their unique
Brave.
mctavish: Right.
Valerie Stoehr: And let them just run around on the stage, you know, like that's what it looks like.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, cool way for you to do.
mctavish: Yeah, yeah. I think there's just like some other thing you know that's that's still part of the work.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, right.
mctavish: You know, like, so it's like that that you
mctavish: All of a sudden become all boring.
mctavish: City, you know, I mean, it's like we're not helping my dad read that that tech, you know, I mean, it's like there's something
Right.
Valerie Stoehr: I mean, like how
Valerie Stoehr: How would you really discover you know if someone who couldn't see
Valerie Stoehr: Right, I wouldn't be kind of going like this when I talked about it, you know, or
mctavish: Maybe it's not even like it's about like
mctavish: It's in text poetically about overwhelm
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah. Uh huh.
mctavish: Yeah, like there's just something completely non visual way of describing
Valerie Stoehr: Right.
mctavish: You know that
mctavish: Yeah, it's interesting. So yeah, I think accessibility is like this huge
mctavish: nut to crack because it's also like, you know, like for a sign language interpreter, like a lot of hearing people just love. I just love watching concerts with this.
mctavish: Which is kind of misses the point of sign language interpreter. Right. Like, like a lot of if you're profoundly deaf, you just really don't care what concepts.
mctavish: Like the words aren't that great.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: And if you're there to see the choreography of it, then, you know, want to see the watch the interpreter, you want to watch the people that are Nancy, with their guitars and stuff, you know, like, that's where the action is happening right
mctavish: So you hear like like you see you have to keep going back to the interpretive see La, la, la, la, la.
mctavish: You know, it's like so.
mctavish: Or watch the interpretive dance who may or may not be good at, you know, it's just, it's so it's sort of this interesting thing because it's like it's almost like interpreting the wrong thing.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, yeah, yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah. Well, that's the nice thing about like these tracks.
Valerie Stoehr: That go with it. Go with the video tag. I don't know if the audio tags supports all the tracks in the same way, but you know where you can have under the law. You have it right here.
Valerie Stoehr: The tracks.
Valerie Stoehr: Right here.
Valerie Stoehr: The track.
Valerie Stoehr: But, um,
mctavish: Yeah, we could choose different like
Valerie Stoehr: You. I mean, you can have a subtitle thing and you can have a chapter thing. You can have a descriptions track like you know there's tracks. I mean, it's not just the subtitle
mctavish: Right, right.
mctavish: Right, right, right.
Valerie Stoehr: There's different ways to do it.
mctavish: Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So you can choose like which is your like I yeah it's like a deaf person stream where it's like they want the person who's transliterated every word. They want to see the actual every word that the person saying because it was an
mctavish: English choice of words.
mctavish: Yeah, they want to have that rolling across and then maybe they want the ASL interpreter who is doing cultural translation, you know, mapping
mctavish: Like actual language mapping
mctavish: But you but if if they had the choice that well both right actual words.
mctavish: Oh yeah, he said.
mctavish: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: So maybe you just have to take that track element and just kind of like, put it on.
Valerie Stoehr: Everything I mean we can't
mctavish: No, I think that's right. Right. No, I think that's right.
Yeah.
mctavish: And I think that, but it makes me like a lot more thoughtful about things like clink, what is the tax you know in the link
Valerie Stoehr: Yes, yes.
Yes.
mctavish: Like I'm actually but but that's something about good semantic design. Right.
Valerie Stoehr: Yes, exactly. Don't put here.
Yeah.
mctavish: Yeah, yeah, it's just this thing about and then not to just put something that's not an ailing like a do with an On Click event.
mctavish: Like actually put an anchor tag, because that's what you mean.
Valerie Stoehr: Right, right. That's right.
Valerie Stoehr: I mean didn't do tags.
Valerie Stoehr: To they need to happen very much
mctavish: Well, I think they're just useful what what they are is they're just like a useful block element right so if you want
mctavish: Mean paragraphs or that but developments there useful like you know as a container like if you want to have something that's like a flex box like the container of it, the rapper. You know, so you can make. So, so it's like saying, Okay, this is this little thing.
mctavish: Within and I'm going to do all this placement
Valerie Stoehr: You know,
mctavish: So it's kind of like it's just like drawing a box.
Valerie Stoehr: Where they're probably wouldn't be a different semantic
Valerie Stoehr: Tag Team like dem probably is appropriate in those situations.
mctavish: And so like an article tigers, because it's not really an article, it's not really a section. Suddenly a paragraph. It's like a, it's like a. It's kind of like a span element right like a spin on it. It's just because you want to say, I want to be able to touch this thing.
mctavish: Yeah, some reason like I want to be able to this word amongst the whole paragraph of stuff. I want to be able to
mctavish: For some reason, reach into
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
And
mctavish: Identify you know like says just this like it. Yeah, so I think about them. It's just like saying if and then I think it's really so help for like you sometimes just have to have a rapper.
mctavish: Yeah, this doesn't have any semantic reason except for that this is going to be my flex box rapper.
mctavish: This is where some of the flex stuff is going to happen.
mctavish: You put that article level. But like you said, but then you don't want all articles to be
mctavish: I mean, it's like it's kind of a visual thing.
mctavish: So it is kind of about
mctavish: You know, a structural it's more like just the structural box that's free of any
mctavish: You know informational meeting.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, because I didn't really know like there's so
Valerie Stoehr: Like it's sort of like I didn't really. I mean, I kind of knew they existed but not really. So when I took these early class like I it's like, what's the fucking div tag again like span. I've never seen you before. Yeah, nothing. I had done did that.
Valerie Stoehr: Right, and so it's like it's just seems like cheating every which way. You know, like, what are we
Valerie Stoehr: Doing but then when I did it, you know, then I could kind of see how it sort of makes sense.
mctavish: It's like the most generic thing that doesn't have semantic meaning because like like you don't want to have to assert that this is a paragraph, because that's about taxes semantic meaning. Right. It's not a section. It's not an article it said
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: You know it.
mctavish: Could be. It's better to use a fake year if you're going to do a finger.
Valerie Stoehr: Around it
mctavish: Yeah, it's just like a completely devoid of semantic like it's kind of nice to have that all set. Right. I mean, it's just like this.
mctavish: Yeah, it's just a something called a set. It's not the integers and stuff that you use the word set you just mean and the most abstract
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: You know block element in line element is what you're saying with those two things. So it's like it's like devoid of semantic meaning in a way
Valerie Stoehr: What would it be
Valerie Stoehr: Like what if you had a page is pretty much just all dibs because because
mctavish: People used to develop like that all the time. I used to develop like that all the time.
mctavish: Because I like the way and then you're just putting classes, you're just putting
mctavish: You know, you're just putting things that could be
mctavish: Select you know selector.
mctavish: Yeah, things I used to develop an All have sinned spans.
Valerie Stoehr: I mean like it's wrong, but
mctavish: I liked it.
mctavish: Yeah, reason
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, like but and would there be a way, you know, especially just thinking, especially visually, like, you know, we're kind of doing art now.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, so maybe
Valerie Stoehr: You know, if we're not really trying to have hierarchical structured content. We're just trying to have moving balls or, I don't know, you know, then it might be fine to just have a page full of notes right it's like a
mctavish: Like yeah, like so. On my on all my pages. There's like these. There's like DIV DIV DIV and I call him a frame. So I say classical is frame is when someone and then what a frame does is it just like says hundred percent 100% height absolute position.
mctavish: Yeah, starting answer. So just stay there. Stay the foot there.
Valerie Stoehr: If you need some magical structure on your pages.
mctavish: And I have all the content is semantically structured so
mctavish: Okay, so I am. And then I have a main
mctavish: You know, sigh, you know, it's still cleaning it up. So I'm still deciding my semantic search for but it's like I have a flex me having. Yeah. And then, but for the so I have like a content frame which is a dev
mctavish: Uh huh. I say content frame. I have the SVG frame. I have a sub text frame which for that photosynthesis thing has that other text.
mctavish: So, and then, you know, so I'll have these div tag. I have a word frame, you know, that like, it's like words that could flood them in the front.
mctavish: You know,
mctavish: So it's like so. But the and those are those are these their, their frames, you know, like that. I think about my stages, like I'm just setting the stage I'm setting the stage I'm setting the Z index on them.
mctavish: You know, here's the stages. The stages. The stages this content and then the content of that's when I start saying article section.
mctavish: You know,
mctavish: I have that
mctavish: Without semantic meaning. Yeah. What I'm doing actually with my with all of the
mctavish: Content is I'm putting it within an article
mctavish: But then I'm using all lists. So you will
mctavish: With the class of stands on
mctavish: And then all these Li. So all these lists elements. Yeah. And so that's what I can say what now I want it to be in line. Now I don't want it to be, you know, so I can say in lane black, you know, and so
mctavish: That's that's the
mctavish: End. So some of the animation of the text. It's just by swapping out the class that's on that UL
mctavish: Element.
mctavish: You know, so I just so it's so it's just
mctavish: But I'm doing, I decided to use that list because it's like, to me like they all are these like Stan. That's what a poem is because I am before I always had like this just like semantic argument with myself, is it like when a poet writes so they put a br
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: Is it a break. You know, is it or is it like a dip, dip, dip, dip it you know it's a name. And so then I thought, well, no, it's a list. So it's like, so a standard is that UL is a list. So there's these
mctavish: And so I just decided to think of it, semantically like that for this project.
Valerie Stoehr: That's nice. I like that. I those br tags also just the kind of budget.
mctavish: Yeah, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: I know
mctavish: Because they do something but you know they're articulate right because they what they mean is they mean a white space element.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, I mean, it's not bad but they're just like
mctavish: They don't enclose. They're not like these chunks like that's why for a while, I would do poetry as DIV DIV DIV DIV, you know, for each of the lines, but that didn't seem right either. You know,
mctavish: Yeah, like so.
Valerie Stoehr: Well, and they don't. It just doesn't feel response. You know how that that concept of that white space, you know when it's non breaking or not. And, you know,
Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: So the list thing is just so much more better. You know, like do you want space between your list items. Tell me about it now.
mctavish: Yeah, exactly. Exactly. And then like how there's those symbols that change at the end of, you know, so that's just and then what's nice is like if you you can do like in then. So you could say every first
mctavish: You know list element.
mctavish: Every second element, you know, every third you say you say every other element, you know, there's all this kind of things that you can do about children then
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah. Nice.
mctavish: Because those are children of a dancer.
mctavish: Yeah. So yeah, so you can do the sectors are sort of rich
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah yeah
mctavish: In that way, and you do like the first letter of the first. Yeah, they should be really huge. And it could look like old school.
mctavish: Yes, because I think it gives a lot of
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: Anyway,
mctavish: Lovely talking to you about this.
mctavish: It helps me actually structure my mind to about like, no, it's that's that's not wrong to be HTML, CSS, that's
mctavish: So my early work all the animation was in CSS like none and
mctavish: You know, it's interesting to
mctavish: It so performant now to, you know, like, that's just a great
mctavish: Combination HTML and CSS just so
So performance.
Valerie Stoehr: Cool.
mctavish: Good job you're doing. It's very interesting.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: Does that make you hate media though sometimes to like video
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah yeah
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah. Uh huh.
mctavish: It's heavy.
Valerie Stoehr: But, well, it just feels like I was on my walk. And I'm like, wait, how can I go in and manipulate the video. Like, I just want to manipulate it right
mctavish: Right, right.
mctavish: Right, yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: I'm just
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, like I kind of I've so I had another dream. So I'll have these dreams where I where I fly or where I just kind of hover.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, you can just go like that and just sort of me.
Valerie Stoehr: And I headed. I woke up this morning and I was so bummed because what it finally happened was I was
Valerie Stoehr: Out and there was a class going on where people were, they were doing it. They were kind of like hovering above the ground, you know, a couple feet and stuff. It was kind of a class, but how to do that. And I like
Valerie Stoehr: JESUS FUCK like I went and talked to the instructor, you know, because I feel like I just feel so close to being able to do that. Like I do it in dreams. It feels so real.
Valerie Stoehr: And like I know I just feel like I know it can be done. And so I need to like learn. I need to be in your class and my hands. And she said, Well, are you ready
Valerie Stoehr: And it was a man and a woman who kind of CO teach and she did with the fortune teller did in India and India, where he looked at the
Valerie Stoehr: Like my fingernails, he kind of studied hard he wanted to know my birth dates and he was kind of writing like shapes you know like you would
Valerie Stoehr: To figure that out. And then he like, looked at each of my fingernail things. And so she like looked at my comments. Interesting. That's the same thing that dude did
Valerie Stoehr: And then they said to me, like, Are you ready, how, how would you put your hands. And I said, like this and they set out you're ready then because when people say like this. They're not ready.
Valerie Stoehr: Okay.
Valerie Stoehr: So excited and then like I woke up and I'm like,
Valerie Stoehr: Oh, I thought this time I was finally get to do it for real.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah. Um, oh my God, what was I gonna say about that. What were you just talking about that.
mctavish: Video any video
Valerie Stoehr: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. So I was out of my walk. And I'm like, wait a minute. You can you can use H. You can go in and manipulate the video right programmatically like
Valerie Stoehr: Oh no, like, you know, was that a dream state thing like
Valerie Stoehr: It's not is it
Valerie Stoehr: I kind of forgot from my I couldn't remember if it was real or not, you know, and it's like on. I don't think it's real. I don't think we can you know
Valerie Stoehr: But like we shouldn't be able to, we should be able to kind of
mctavish: Write
Valerie Stoehr: You that like I'm looking at the Art 21 homepage is still up in the background. And with that, you know, the people in the balloon and everything and like I should just be able to kind of like make her move forward. Make the balloon.
mctavish: Yeah, just
mctavish: Do data.
mctavish: You can kind of do it by bringing onto canvas. But that's sort of, it sounds like you want to create it, but declarative way right
Valerie Stoehr: Yes, right. I know.
Valerie Stoehr: I know like maybe I will probably get well, will we get there.
Valerie Stoehr: I guess in that way that video games are kind of went from this thing to something else.
Valerie Stoehr: But we'll still have moving pictures and
Valerie Stoehr: tog Rafi and video kind of be something
mctavish: Mm hmm.
But
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah video is kind of weird.
Valerie Stoehr: Because there's some other media that we need to invent
mctavish: I've always been interested in, like, if you have like a really huge image, like say you had a big image and then that you would move around in the image space.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: So it was like, way bigger than your view.
mctavish: Yeah, but like if you actually
Valerie Stoehr: That's like President you
mctavish: Hold it. It's like sort of micro fish.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: Just move the image around to see it or
mctavish: Something like I think that would be an interesting way of feeling if you wanted to feel like you're in this world.
mctavish: Yeah, like you wanted to get, you know, zoom over to see that the river, you know,
mctavish: See the
mctavish: At one bird street, you know, like
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah yeah
mctavish: So it feel like microfiche or something.
Valerie Stoehr: Like Google map for
Valerie Stoehr: As long just sort of
Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: geo location like I
Valerie Stoehr: Said the Geolocation API.
Valerie Stoehr: Right, an object we define that's an art piece or something.
mctavish: Yeah, something like that. I feel like there's something interesting and and
mctavish: Yeah, that or
mctavish: Or in
mctavish: You could slow down and video right and
mctavish: closet and
Valerie Stoehr: That's true.
mctavish: You can keep like knowing like where are we now, where are we now,
Valerie Stoehr: Where we know all that's true.
mctavish: Two minutes 12 seconds.
mctavish: Okay, now posit
Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, that's true.
mctavish: Interesting.
mctavish: Exercise actually
Valerie Stoehr: But like, what if you want to manipulate the content make happy ending.
mctavish: Right.
Valerie Stoehr: Make the bad person go back in the shadow
mctavish: Yeah yeah people play a lot with transmedia that way. But it's always sort of a boring click right it's like click to see the other film.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm. Yeah.
mctavish: Click to see that person's backstory, which just goes to another film.
Valerie Stoehr: Right. But how do you have an
Valerie Stoehr: Interactive
Valerie Stoehr: Conversation with it.
mctavish: Let's are like if you could mark up all the frames.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm. Mm.
Valerie Stoehr: Hmm, yeah.
mctavish: Did you ever see a map man with a movie camera.
mctavish: By Brittany.
mctavish: Know it's really cool. It's like one of the first like he's rushing right. One of the very early film things when people are like, what the hell you know like where they have no idea what to do with it.
mctavish: Yeah, life. So you took, like, all this footage. Like you could just see he's like absolutely on speed with us.
mctavish: Like just
mctavish: Ecstatic over this new form of work. And so you should see it. You can see it. You just like Google it and see it, but his wife kept her name was. But she was the editor, which was a profound part of this whole thing right
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, like
mctavish: A PERFORMANCE thing. So she had all these like drawers and drawers of video and images. Right. And then she's doing all the cut and all the splay slicing and dicing and choosing how fast or how slow you know to do these things. And so she
mctavish: So it's just kind of really it's just cool because it's just such ecstasy over the idea of moving picture before they knew what moving picture had to be
mctavish: And she's brilliant a brilliant editor. It's like, it's very cool but it kind of gives you that idea of what would you do if you could do anything.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: Yeah, excellent. You'd have really slow.
mctavish: Yeah, let's down that frame for a while. It stands for me.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah yeah
mctavish: Especially as you go.
mctavish: Like now let's do it. You know, it's, it's, yeah, it's just really interesting to see.
mctavish: Like to go back to that beginner's mind with that. I think it's really
Valerie Stoehr: You know,
mctavish: Very useful things. Is it so if you, you know, and pretty soon, like memory won't be a problem, right. So you could really think of storing all these frames.
mctavish: And
mctavish: See others like you don't think of video as a kind of a stuck thing, but more like I said
mctavish: It's just this long list of
mctavish: A UI UL a long list of friends and then and tweens. You know, so you might have like so frames and then how do you move from frame to frame, you know, there might be some
mctavish: Sense of, you know, inserting
mctavish: Some transitional effects or something.
mctavish: I mean, because like print like us, as I can't remember which guys we kind of pointing out video and audio or just data.
mctavish: You know, it's just data digital video is just like a list of pixels.
mctavish: You know, being delivered very, very fast form.
mctavish: Yeah, but if you just, you know, so there's nothing that means you can't interrupt that for, you know, talk to that data in a different way.
Valerie Stoehr: Wow.
mctavish: So you're just going in a way. You're forcing your browser to do a stereotypical thing with that.
mctavish: Data, but you don't need to like that's what a lot of color chart is right. Let's pull it into
mctavish: You know the interrupt that process. I'm all like, so people it right into Canvas and then screw with the pixel color or something you know you can do you turn it all black and white is just life turn everything black and white.
mctavish: Or
Valerie Stoehr: You would mark biologic people were working with us. The no sequel company that was founded by a guy that I used to work with Ingress
Valerie Stoehr: As it turns out,
Valerie Stoehr: When he was working at the public, the publisher place with the drinking problem.
Valerie Stoehr: It was cool, talking with them because I can't
Valerie Stoehr: It's been a while. My head can't kind of go back to that very clearly right now, but they were talking about like what the you know what their big customers were doing, you know, like the Disney Studios, you know, we're all over it. Right, like they were putting all of their
Valerie Stoehr: Films because
Valerie Stoehr: Like, like they're seeing it that way. Right. It's just data, data, data, data, data. And it's this. It can be unstructured, it can be really flexible and you can just, you know, recombine your tables dynamically and and
Valerie Stoehr: I feel like it was
Valerie Stoehr: You know, I know the news organizations, but I feel like
Valerie Stoehr: I want to say like the auto manufacturer. Like, I can't remember all the
Valerie Stoehr: All this stuff.
Valerie Stoehr: But, but it's that kind of thinking
Valerie Stoehr: It is just data, you know, it is just bagel bagel bagel data.
Valerie Stoehr: Amen.
mctavish: Well, that
Valerie Stoehr: Well, and speaking of data. This recording will be like one big honkin file.
mctavish: I wasn't the same because there's this thing called I'm just trying to name.
mctavish: The where you can actually just program like each pixel of the screen. So you think of
mctavish: Instead of thinking of it as, as you like, you can have each thing being directed by its own flow, you know, so if you actually were to program like that and
mctavish: This is this pixel. This is this, you know, so if you instead of like, I'm thinking of the ball that's going around like this. But if you think like that, you know, so there's so there's ways of programming, like that. And actually, they're using that in something called TensorFlow to do
mctavish: AI in the browser.
mctavish: Hmm, because this, this way of doing multi doing using the graphics card, which is very fast, right. So you're doing you're using the GPU with like to do
mctavish: What what is really computationally intensive AI, you know, so you're having a due process live and within the browser without having to go to a server and do the hard
mctavish: You know processing.
mctavish: To actually use the
mctavish: Do
mctavish: divert the
mctavish: GPU skill.
mctavish: Which is parallel processing.
mctavish: at a rapid rate.
mctavish: Right and and use it to do information prize, you know, to do thinking
mctavish: Sort of interesting like
mctavish: To think about
mctavish: Makes you think that, think about that screen that are really different.
Valerie Stoehr: That's cool.
mctavish: It's kind of like Flatland, he would. Awesome.
mctavish: Yeah encomium pixels like thinkers
mctavish: Are the pixels are all seeing. It's like, it's like it is like shape not saying that they're all doing their thing.
mctavish: Same time
mctavish: This one's getting quite. Oh, this one, you know, they're all doing this.
Valerie Stoehr: I tell you that I used to maybe I mentioned this, there's this jamelia software where I direct
mctavish: Yeah yeah
Valerie Stoehr: And so I did get it working. So counted one same where it just like
Valerie Stoehr: They did a test thing for me where it didn't work. But then it then it kind of resolved on its own. And so then I went to one. And I asked. I started crying actually like when I first plugged in, because like I could hear everyone again.
mctavish: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, it was just like oh
Valerie Stoehr: My god.
mctavish: Yeah, well,
Valerie Stoehr: You know the multi. It's so, like, amazing to hear like you know the multiple voices, like, again, it was so moving. And so it was this huge hi, and then it was also hard because there's still a little bit of a delay.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah. And so what people have to do is just stay with the beat you getting the ball back
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, and be singing with what you hear.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, and like the leaders know that that was enough people who
mctavish: Don't it
Valerie Stoehr: Is very new that they've kind of. And so, you know, how long can
Valerie Stoehr: Assess lines just end up
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, I'll stick with the bead and sometimes I've muted myself and I just stick with the beat.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, but then they're way off.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, and
Valerie Stoehr: So i and then I like okay, I'll just slow down. I'll just sing with them. Okay, now I'll just stay like a little bit ahead, not have not
Great.
Valerie Stoehr: Um, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: So,
Valerie Stoehr: I did that for like about 45 minutes or so and then I'm like, Okay, I don't know. I don't know what I'm gonna do with this, you know,
Right.
Valerie Stoehr: So I'm going to go back another time.
Valerie Stoehr: And just see, but I love like the field recording that I posted is from the Philadelphia group and the Philadelphia group is doing this and
Valerie Stoehr: I just, I'm really started like I think that Philly group, I could really love like it's that Pennsylvania singing that got canceled.
Valerie Stoehr: That I was going to go to. And there's, I think they've got some cool stuff going on in Pennsylvania. So I kind of might want to just join their sayings, just because of the just to make connection there.
Valerie Stoehr: And then Omaha saying they're doing it. And I think they're doing I'm out on the West Coast, too. But so I'm kind of thinking like this. Like when I posted that recording, just to put it on the website to
Valerie Stoehr: It kind of help me.
Valerie Stoehr: Um, you know, back to those questions about what the fuck am I doing, you know, to think, okay, like right now. This is an awesome time for me to build the connections.
Valerie Stoehr: To be like maybe
Valerie Stoehr: Maybe I am going to want to be playing with different recordings of shape note things and it's going to help for me to have the personal relationships because people don't really want like what are you doing with our recordings
mctavish: Mm hmm.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, it's for an insider to do that. Mm hmm. You know, it's just easier and better
Valerie Stoehr: And and I can totally do that here in Minnesota, but kind of for the national group.
Valerie Stoehr: Room, like, okay, so I'll go to the jamelia sings maybe that I'll just figure out a way because it's also about building the connections, it's also like
Valerie Stoehr: Look at, like, this is an amazing time like we've never had jampolis field recordings before you know like that one was, that was an in person one but um that I posted. But like, there's like, cool.
Valerie Stoehr: Um, there's cool things I could be getting digitally right now you know that might be part of something
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, and so
Valerie Stoehr: So it just felt like a time when kind of the worlds are coming together. Right. It's kind of
Valerie Stoehr: I don't know what I'm doing but
Valerie Stoehr: But doing something I've got some weird I got just such a weird strange intersection of shape note and Quaker, and then all my own yeah its own stuff and
Right.
mctavish: Right.
Valerie Stoehr: Somehow, it will come out.
mctavish: Yeah.
mctavish: Yeah, I think that's
mctavish: It, there's this backbone of information thinking or something.
mctavish: And then there's these things like that might
mctavish: That's interesting.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah.
mctavish: Have fun learning all about media.
Valerie Stoehr: Thank you. Yeah, I'm going to go back to my slow as molasses part now and just kind of work on that.
Valerie Stoehr: The video API and the tracks and
Valerie Stoehr: But it helps like yes, I'm just not going to get like to wind up in the intricacies of all that goddamn JavaScript.
mctavish: What else all the things about like, and then the chat and then the transcript will happen here like it could happen just underneath that, like, I mean, you know, just all that
Valerie Stoehr: Right, just so I understand what's going on. Just so I can kind of harness it to the degree that I want to. Right. Yeah. Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Okay, so what are you doing, what's your next thing.
mctavish: I need to
mctavish: I want to put probably I'm thinking about putting in. So this thing called migrations. That's a you know that i don't know if you ever seen my walking shadow thing, so it'll be like a walking like Phil it's felt like my shadow walking
mctavish: So it's like I just took us. It's kind of like blue, white, kind of
mctavish: The shadow of my my whacking step.
mctavish: So I think that piece might be called migrations.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: Kind of more about and I might try to find a poem of Sheila's that's kind of about hoc migration, but then with a human.
mctavish: I am you know thing across this reversal kind of thing. And then that and then maybe one called siren
mctavish: Oh, yeah. And so, and then
Valerie Stoehr: You're going to add to the to the books.
mctavish: Yeah. And then I put out what I really need to do, does it. So if it feels pretty complete I really need to get the sound figured out, you know, like what do I want the song to be so my goal is have like by next week like
mctavish: That flushed out you know so and then
mctavish: Yeah, I want that to be that far, really. And so it feels like it's you know it's gonna, it's going to be an ongoing thing. But just so that it stands alone right now.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm.
mctavish: So I can pass it to the bell.
mctavish: That's
mctavish: Like the final conversation.
mctavish: And then, and then I'm going to be making
mctavish: But I think I'll wait until the week after that to make me to make postcards to send out to them across the mailing list. So I have to generate like a whole PDF of
mctavish: These graphic graphic design things that I'll probably add to each one like this, or possibly just to the whole project. I'll add this like set of PDF books that are
mctavish: Like still still still still like generative still still still still
mctavish: So there's kind of both of those forms and possibly
mctavish: You know, with the attacks available somehow
mctavish: Separate from the animations. I'm not quite sure about that.
Yeah.
mctavish: And you
Valerie Stoehr: I think
Valerie Stoehr: I should do, I'll do a time limited thing. Like, I think I'll say I have
Valerie Stoehr: Through the weekend.
Valerie Stoehr: To go look at GitHub.
Valerie Stoehr: And just
Valerie Stoehr: Do I want to do anything with it or not.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, like
Valerie Stoehr: There I got something over there by Sunday night, and we'll kind of like maybe do stuff over there. And if it's just like, all right, then. Nope.
mctavish: That's not
Valerie Stoehr: Gonna happen.
Valerie Stoehr: So I think maybe if I can just
Valerie Stoehr: Like Bye bye, a week from now I want to have, I guess, established like where are the files that I'm doing.
mctavish: What's your workspace.
mctavish: Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: That and then also I will make forward progress. So like, I'm not sure how much, but I'm going to be further ahead in my class than I am right now. I mean that that one page that we just looked at.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, maybe I'm done with module one, but I'm not sure, because I think
Valerie Stoehr: Taking time for my workspace is a
Good.
mctavish: Yeah.
Valerie Stoehr: Well, I'll be further for sure. In module. Well, just further along in the class.
mctavish: Mm hmm. Yeah, yeah. Perfect.
Valerie Stoehr: Okay.
mctavish: Excellent.
Valerie Stoehr: Thank you.
mctavish: Thank you.
mctavish: You have helped me so much. I can't tell you it's like
mctavish: Likewise,
Valerie Stoehr: Thank you, super, super helpful.
mctavish: Good. Let's hear girlfriend.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, I will.
Valerie Stoehr: Cozy say hi to your girlfriend to save some cornbread stuffing dressing stuff for us, please.
mctavish: We will we will pretty soon.
mctavish: Okay.
mctavish: Pretty soon we're going to be pretty soon.
Valerie Stoehr: Pretty soon it'll be all good.
mctavish: Yeah, exactly.
Valerie Stoehr: I'm feeling better about that. I feel like I can see the light at the end of the tunnel everyone just
Valerie Stoehr: Fucking stay alive tell that. Okay.
mctavish: Yeah, no, it's like, say, cuz like the news isn't there might there's gonna be a vaccine some time for us. So therefore go out and get sick right now.
Valerie Stoehr: Yeah, I know, I know I had that we were having that conversation actually about
mctavish: Dare to Dream, you know, like the street to do you know what would you do what you can.
mctavish: Yeah, like I've just been really missing art museums like being able to go in
mctavish: And you could stay as long as you want.
mctavish: You can see it in their purse, the grandkids for her. It's like
mctavish: Yeah. Just read, they're sitting on your lap. You're just like me. No one has mass
mctavish: Yeah, yeah, making cookies with what a Master Hand
That
mctavish: You know, so yeah. It's like, it feels like you can dare to start thinking
mctavish: Yeah, about those things.
mctavish: Yeah, so
mctavish: And then still wait for months, but at least you can think about them.
Valerie Stoehr: I know I Terry Gross had a vaccine dude on
Valerie Stoehr: COUPLE DAYS AGO, I felt I felt better after listening to him, you know, he's he's in Texas. I think he's at Baylor, he's been working on the vaccines that that the pharma doesn't want to do because their for
Valerie Stoehr: Their vaccines that don't make any money, you know, for problem Leo third world or you know development coordination kind of stuff and
Valerie Stoehr: And and they've worked on Corona viruses, because before like no one was really
Valerie Stoehr: Yes, right.
Valerie Stoehr: Right. Start and and so they've got a vaccine that is doing okay. It's like, oh, go, go, Mr Baylor dude go but um and so Terry was asking them all these questions and
Valerie Stoehr: And it made me feel better about Terry was like, well, like which vaccine. Are we supposed to take. Like, which one are you waiting for, and he said,
Valerie Stoehr: They're all the same like whatever one gets approved and has kind of been through the appropriate things
Valerie Stoehr: That's the one I want. You know, like vaccine technology is not fancy. They're all the vaccines that we have for coronavirus to kind of made on that same you know principle that we know that's like really effective. So, so just get it.
Valerie Stoehr: You know, like, whichever one that you know there's just maybe differences and efficacy or like whatever, but they're all the same. And like so, we learned that, you know, you're going to need a booster because the first one, you know, not so good. And then we're able to improve that, fine.
Valerie Stoehr: Get your first one wait for your booster and and that same thing. He was just saying, like, you know, this is just such a tragic time to develop lifelong complications of Kobe or to die.
Valerie Stoehr: From Coleman right now because it is
Valerie Stoehr: Just around the corner. Really just stay alive. You know, because you know it's like we can see it. It's coming soon. Like, oh yeah, right.
mctavish: Exactly, exactly. Meanwhile, my sister sent me a photo of her friend whose works like trance and transport. So he's transporting people that come in emergency emergency transport them are
mctavish: And so he has, like, it's like this mask. It looks like it's almost looks like Klu Klux Klan is like this weight thing and this mask and if there's oxygen that's pumped into it.
mctavish: So silly as accurate as our body as I mean it's amazing with the lady with the he's on team 3am it's a three elements is like. And then, and he said, like, three floors are just completely filled with Kobe, you know, and it's just like, Okay, yeah, we can just make some more beans people
mctavish: Know, make your cornbread.
mctavish: And then. Meanwhile, my dad like just went out to get birdseed but at a small local Starbucks. Still, it's like, I just think
Valerie Stoehr: I know
Valerie Stoehr: Like, I know you know I'm really, I'm kind of I'm kind of shocked. I mean, I know that Trump has poison the well. But I feel like all these stories about you know how people sacrifice in the wars and blah blah
Valerie Stoehr: Blah, like is no one reaching back into that.
mctavish: I know right.
Valerie Stoehr: I mean like you fucking can't live without thanksgiving for one god damn year. I mean, it just
mctavish: Right. And did you did you listen to the button speech.
Valerie Stoehr: Only what CNN had for a condensed
mctavish: Thing. It was really great. I was like,
mctavish: Yeah, I like listening to Mr. Rogers when you just need it because it was, but it was really good. He because he was reaching into all of that.
mctavish: Yeah, our patriotic duty. We have done it before. We can do this together like just this that language that you use.
mctavish: Around more time that you know we're not at war with each other. We're at war with this virus, like this, like, just this. It was just such a leadership.
mctavish: Yeah. Dang, and just turned it on its head about
mctavish: Yeah, selfishness, you know,
mctavish: Like is it that hard.
Valerie Stoehr: That's. I mean, I've been imagining like having billboards, that kind of talk about
Valerie Stoehr: You know something, but you know like in 1944 you know like something about sugar rationing.
Valerie Stoehr: There's something about like no coffee for you know 18 months.
Valerie Stoehr: Mm hmm. You know, like
Valerie Stoehr: You
Valerie Stoehr: won't put on a mask to walk into Starbucks and, you know,
Valerie Stoehr: Like just the concept of
Valerie Stoehr: This is me on exact
Valerie Stoehr: Okay then.
mctavish: We will stay working
mctavish: On our JavaScript.
mctavish: Er cornbread.
Valerie Stoehr: That's right. Okay.
mctavish: Good to see you.
Valerie Stoehr: All the best. Thank you. See you later.
Valerie Stoehr: Okay, bye.